---
title: "Afghan_Wars"
---

##  **Afghan Wars v1.0 and the Vietnam War v6.0 by FRVP** 

Compatable with Armagedon and Doomsday. A total of 3 scenarios packaged
together with new map, new units, new music, new sprites!

**Afghan Wars:** Start out in 1988 and proceed though the Soviet
withdrawl from Afghanistan, PDPA collapse, tribal warloards anarchy,
Taliban period events and September 11th attacks to past the 2003 USA
invation of Iraq. Includes all 3 Iraq wars, conflicts in Chechnya,
Kurdistan, Somalia, Kashmir and Yemen. Rated 70% historically accurate.

Playable countries: Afghanistan, USSR, PDPA, USA, UK, Saudi Arabia,
Pashtun mujahiddin, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Hezbe, Jamiet and Al Qaeda.
NATO troops are represented.

Also included are Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Georgia,
Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Armenia, China, India, Turkey,
Syria, Jordan, Yemen, Kawait, Kashmir, Kurdistan, Somalia and Sudan.

The PDPA (Peoples Democaratic Party of Afghanistan) later becomes the
Northern Alliance and the Pashtun mujahiddin later becomes the Taliban
in 1994. This way, you can play the whole scenario as one of these
countries.

  
**Vietnam War:** Great historical full-function scenario of the American
war in Vietnam 1963 - 1975, with other possible outcomes to certain
events. Many rivers, monsoons, jungles and VC guerrilla attacks. Rated
90% historically accurate.

Start out in 1963 with the Diem and Kennedy assasinations and proceed
though the many Vietnam era events from the Gulf of Tonkin incident to
past the S.A.L.T. treaty in 1975. Nuclear tensions are high with USA,
Soviets and China while Laos, Cambodia, Taiwan, and Korea battle with
communism. Besides the Vietnam War, Vietnam offers other possible
regional conflicts such as another Korean war (technically they are
still at war today), the Soviet-China conflict, Malaysia-Indonisian
conflict and a China-Taiwan conflict. It also has civil wars for the
shaping of government in countries such as Cambodia and Laos which could
allow attacks within their neutral territories.

Playable countries: North or South Vietnam, Viet Cong, USA, USSR, China,
Thailand, North or South Korea. Also included are Laos, Cambodia,
Taiwan, Phillipines, Malaysia and Singapore. Hmong, Australian and New
Zealand are represented.

  
**Indian War:** A war involving India, Burma, North Vietnam, Thailand,
Afghanistan and Pakistan to showcase the 2 modified counties.

  
**Major map change:** A total of 60 textured new territories added. The
Caspian Sea is now navagatable with ports in Iran and Soviet Union.

**25 New Units:** Cold-war and post cold-war units including infantry,
marine, mountain, HQ, militia, garrison, tanks, aircraft, gunships,
subs, drones, missiles, advanced transports and sea mines.

Also 25 units included from the Vietnam Sceanario: Green Beret, AH-1
Cobra, Advanced Supersonic Fighter, Nuclear Sub, M41 Light-Tank, Titan
ICBM, ABM, Paladin, Missile Launcher, Attack Helicopters, Advanced Air
Cavalry. A grand total of 50 new units!

**Technolgies:** stealth, night vision, super semiconductors and
computers, satellites, jungle warfare and lazer. Basic tech tree perfect
for post WW2 scenarios.

**Brigades:** modern artillery, elite engineers, M42 Duster, M113,
rocket launcher, and land mines.

**Optional Sprites:** M-41 complete sprite, Helicopter movement sprite
and other basic 'stand' sprites for Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam and USA.
(Helicopter cavalry sprite not for WW2)

**Optional Music:** 85MB, Awesome optional sound track from the Vietnam
era ...rated PG!

There are changes or additions to some config, db, minister, leader and
tech files. New graphics were added for new units, ministers, leaders
and events. A few counters, flags and shields were added. New AI files
for all countries involved were added. Mountain and jungle warfare is
enhanced. Best played with agressive AI settings.

Made vanilla friendly for Armageddon v1.1 but will work for all with the
correct patch. Unzip files to Armaggedon, Doomsday top-level directory.
No patch needed for Armageddon.

**Requirements:** (Not compatable with previous versions) Vietnam6.zip
is required, 28 MB. Version 6.0 is the latest. VN6MAP.zip is required,
35 MB (60 additional provinces). Version 6.0 is the latest. DD6patch.zip
is required for Doomsday, 100 KB. Version 6.0 is the latest. You will
need a no-time-limit fix for your version to go beyond 1964!
(Unfortunatley the only time patch I found for ARMG 1.2 and ARMG 1.3
won't let the AI build after 1964. So get version ARMG 1.1 or DD 1.3 for
full function play, otherwise there are enough events to still make the
game rather enjoyable.)

*Thanks to Jamie for his Map Maker, Digoo for his TNW ideas and BeBro,
Hilsdorf and Strits1945 for their contributions!*

**FRVP \~ Creator of Vietnam and Afghan War Scenarios**

Enjoy!
[http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?t=472931](http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?t=472931)

[Download link here (Versions after Version 4 are paid
for)](http://vietafghan.frvp.com/)
