---
title: "Air_unit_statistics"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 HOI v 1.0 - 1.3 ](#HOI_v_1.0_-_1.3)
    -   [ 1.1 Air Units ](#Air_Units)
        -   [ 1.1.1 Close Air Support ](#Close_Air_Support)
        -   [ 1.1.2 Escort Fighters ](#Escort_Fighters)
        -   [ 1.1.3 Fighters ](#Fighters)
        -   [ 1.1.4 Flying Bomb ](#Flying_Bomb)
        -   [ 1.1.5 Interceptors ](#Interceptors)
        -   [ 1.1.6 Naval Bomber ](#Naval_Bomber)
        -   [ 1.1.7 Strategic Bombers ](#Strategic_Bombers)
        -   [ 1.1.8 Strategic Rocket ](#Strategic_Rocket)
        -   [ 1.1.9 Tactical Bombers ](#Tactical_Bombers)
        -   [ 1.1.10 Transport Planes ](#Transport_Planes)
-   [ 2 Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 ](#Doomsday_1.0_-_1.3)

##  HOI v 1.0 - 1.3 

###  Air Units 

####  [Close Air Support](/Close_Air_Support "Close Air Support") 

Close Air Support is the key to the blitzkrieg tactic. These planes have
the ability to strike precisely at enemy units, enabling your ground
forces to achieve a rapid breakthrough. They are slow, sturdy planes and
this makes them an easy target for enemy fighters.

[TABLE]

####  [Escort Fighters](/Escort_Fighters "Escort Fighters") 

Escort Fighters are long-range fighters, designed to escort bombers and
keep enemy interceptors from the bombers. They are drilled in tactics to
achieve this mission and receive a bonus when escorting bombers. In Air
Superiority missions, they are less effective.

[TABLE]

    Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday
    A major change in HOI2:DD is that Escort fighters are brigade type units attached to bombers.
    This results in better values for the bomber when intercepted by enemy planes, but also a lower range.

####  [Fighters](/Fighters "Fighters") 

Fighters are the backbone of any air force. The have moderate range,
have the best air attack capability (without bonuses), and can be
effective against ground targets. Their primary role is achieving air
superiority: destroying enemy fighters and denying airspace to enemy
bombers.

While a specialized air force is ideal, these craft are all-rounders.
Interceptors are superior at bomber interception (due to a bonus) and
escorts can reach far into enemy territory. If research or production
choices are tight, develop the fighter first.

In a ground attack role, note that the hard attack capability of
fighters is particularly high, comparable to that of CAS and TAC
bombers. After air superiority has been achieved, fighters are ideal for
giving bombing runs an extra punch against armoured targets. These units
can also be effective against soft targets, but to a lesser extent.

[TABLE]

####  [Flying Bomb](/Flying_Bomb "Flying Bomb") 

The Flying Bomb (e.g. the German V1) is a pilotless aircraft powered by
an early jet engine, designed to deliver a payload of explosives to an
area target. It is slower than a rocket or missile, which means that it
can be intercepted and shot down by enemy fighters.

[TABLE]

####  [Interceptors](/Interceptors "Interceptors") 

Interceptors are short-range fighters designed to destroy enemy bombers.
They have high speed and good manouverability to make them agile enough
to evade the machine guns of the bombers, while having the firepower
needed to disable a heavy, armoured bomber. Against enemy fighters, they
are less effective yet they still put up a good fight.

[TABLE]

-   **Note: Interceptors receive a bonus to their air attack rating vs.
    enemy bomber units.**

  

####  [Naval Bomber](/Naval_Bomber "Naval Bomber") 

The Naval Bomber is designed for use over water and make accurate
tactical strikes against enemy surface vessels using torpedoes or
armour-piercing bombs. They have a limited dog-fighting capability,
which makes them vulnerable if intercepted by fighters.

[TABLE]

####  [Strategic Bombers](/Strategic_Bombers "Strategic Bombers") 

Strategic Bombers are the heaviest type of aircraft, designed to deliver
a large payload of bombs to enemy provinces, with the aim of crippling
his industry, infrastructure, and defensive installations. However, the
Strategic Bomber is slow despite its long range, which can make it
vulnerable to attack by fighters.

[TABLE]

####  [Strategic Rocket](/Strategic_Rocket "Strategic Rocket") 

The Rocket or Ballistic Missile (e.g. the German V2) is designed to
deliver a payload of explosives to a distant target. Its high speed
makes it almost impossible to intercept but it is an expensive way of
destroying the enemy with conventional explosives. Nuclear weapons are
needed to give it more than psychological effect.

[TABLE]

####  [Tactical Bombers](/Tactical_Bombers "Tactical Bombers") 

Tactical Bombers are medium-sized aircraft, larger than Fighters, yet
smaller than Strategic Bombers, which are used primarily for delivering
attacks against enemy ground units such as Armour and Infantry. Unlike
close air support aircraft, it is also capable of taking up limited
strategic bombardment roles, such as runway cratering or strikes against
defensive installations. Although they have a limited dog-fighting
capability, they can be easily outmatched by Fighters in air combat.

[TABLE]

####  [Transport Planes](/Transport_Planes "Transport Planes") 

Transport Planes are designed to ferry men and materials over long
distances quickly. Paratroops need Transport Planes in order to make a
paradrop.

[TABLE]

##  Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 

Available as a PDF file: [Air Unit
Statistics](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=UnitStats_DD12_Air.pdf "UnitStats DD12 Air.pdf")
. Also, a complete Excel file is available: [DD UnitStats v1.2 Excel
File](http://joe-s.home.insightbb.com/hoi2dd.htm)
