---
title: "Amphibious_assault"
---

[Template:Anthology](/index.php?title=Template:Anthology&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Anthology (page does not exist)")

An amphibious assault is an attack by units borded on [transport
ships](/Transport "Transport") on a coastal province. To be able to
start an amphibious assault, the coastal province attacked needs to have
a beach suitable for a landing party -- this can be checked by looking
at the terrain map in the game. A province will have a small beach line
if this is the case. Consult the image to the right. Tokyo has a beach,
as indicated by the beach symbol on the terrain map. Additionally, if
you click on the province a small beach symbol will be shown in the
overview.

## Contents

-   [ 1 Amphibious Assault Efficiency ](#Amphibious_Assault_Efficiency)
-   [ 2 Best units for a landing ](#Best_units_for_a_landing)
-   [ 3 Planning the landing ](#Planning_the_landing)
-   [ 4 Changes with Armageddon 1.3 Beta
    ](#Changes_with_Armageddon_1.3_Beta)

###  Amphibious Assault Efficiency 

Often, a newer player will throw lots of units into the attack,
including tanks and HQs. Then, they wonder why the attack fails
miserably. An amphibious landing requires much preparation and
coordination. This is why, in-game, an additional amphibious landing
stacking limit exists. For Doomsday, the limit is 3 divisions, for
Armageddon, the limit depends on your naval doctrines and can be between
3 and 8 (for the [Base Strike](/Base_Strike "Base Strike") 1952 tech).
Every unit over this limit will decrease the combat effectiveness of
*all units* by 10%, cumulatively. For example, let's say the command
limit is 3. If you attack with 3 divisions, all attack with 100%
efficiency. If you attack with 4, all four will attack at 90%
efficiency. If you should chose to attack with 12 divisions, all units
will have a penalty of (12-3)x10 = 90 percent!

This doesn't mean that one should never attack with more divisions than
the limit. In fact, every additional division will add Org and draw fire
from the other divisions. The marginal benefits of an additional unit's
Org will have to be compared to the marginal loss of combat efficiency
(10%, for each division over the stacking limit). The following table
will demonstrate this for a stacking limit of 3.

`   `

`   `

    Units  Eff/unit  Total Eff
    1        100       100
    2        100       200
    3        100       300
    4         90       360
    5         80       400
    6         70       420*
    7         60       420*
    8         50       400
    9         40       360

`  `

`   `

Committing 6 or 7 divisions to the attack will yield the highest amount
of total combat effectiveness deployed.

###  Best units for a landing 

Obviously, [marines](/Marines "Marines") are the best divisions for an
amphibious landing. They get the lowest combat penalty in an attack.
Second best are [mountaineers](/Mountaineers "Mountaineers") . These are
also very well suited for an amphibious landing and can clear a beach
that is not so heavily defended and are more versatile as well as
cheaper to build. [Paratroopers](/Paratroopers "Paratroopers") also have
less difficulty participating in a landing. But consider, if you have
paratroopers, these would be better used to stage a simultaneous
drop-off over the beachhead for extra efficiency. Plain vanilla leg
infantry will also be capable of an amphibious invasion. Do *not* use
Mechs, Mots, Arms or HQs, as these divisions have excessive amphibious
landing penalties.

The amphibious landing penalties are reduced for each Marines tech
researched. Even if you never plan to build marines and want to use Mnt
or pure Inf in your landings, you should research the Marines techs, as
the increased amphibious assault efficiency will make landings easier
for *all* unit types.

As you would want to have as much firepower as possible during the
attack, all units should be brigaded if you expect stiff resistance.
Artillery for marines is a good idea, leg infantry can also field
SP-Art. Putting all divisions on offensive supply can also help to tip
the scales in your favour. Flying interdiction and logistical strike
missions with your bombers will also help "soften up" your opponents.

Should you encounter a particularly well defended beach, try attacking
in waves. Immediately after the first attack fails, have the next group
of marines attack again, until the defences wear out. It's very costly,
but taking land by amphibious assault always was.

Lastly, remember that having a capable [surface action
group](/Surface_action_group "Surface action group") (or
[MAF](/Marine_Amphibious_Force "Marine Amphibious Force") ) in the sea
zone adjacent to the province attacked. Not only will these ships
protect your transports, but the [shore
bombardment](/index.php?title=Shore_bombardment&action=edit&redlink=1 "Shore bombardment (page does not exist)")
they can provide is another (max) 25% combat penalty for the defender of
the province. Also note that the shore bombardment will help your
marines once they have occupied the province, giving the same penalty to
the counter-attacker!

###  Planning the landing 

Put together your landing force -- preferably marines with artillery and
load them onto your transports. An *Amphibious Assault* mission is now
active for the transports -- do *not* use it! It is bugged and can lead
to lots of headaches. Instead, move the transports to a sea zone next to
the province you want to attack. Click on the "unload" button of the
transport fleet. Chose the units you want to use in the attack and
right-click on the province you would like attacked. The attack will now
function just as a normal land-based attack. Do not move your
transports, as the attack will break off. Do not forget to put your
fighting ships on Shore Bombardment mission.

###  Changes with Armageddon 1.3 Beta 

For the Armageddon 1.3beta patch, the above does not hold. One can no
longer disembark units into enemy territory. If you use the 1.3beta
patch, you will have to use the amphibious assault mission. On the plus
side, all remaining bugs with this mission type have been squashed and
it should work exactly as intended. If you wish to attack in waves, this
means that you will have to make a separate fleet for each wave, as the
amphibious assault mission is fleet-dependent.
