---
title: "Beginners_guide_to_army_management"
---

[Template:Anthology](/index.php?title=Template:Anthology&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Anthology (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 **Beginner's guide to army management**
    ](#Beginner.27s_guide_to_army_management)
    -   [ 1.1 Overview ](#Overview)
-   [ 2 Unit organization ](#Unit_organization)
    -   [ 2.1 Setting up formations ](#Setting_up_formations)
        -   [ 2.1.1 Splitting, merging and moving divisions between
            formations
            ](#Splitting.2C_merging_and_moving_divisions_between_formations)
        -   [ 2.1.2 Deploying troops from the redeployment pool
            ](#Deploying_troops_from_the_redeployment_pool)
        -   [ 2.1.3 Advice on formation setup
            ](#Advice_on_formation_setup)
        -   [ 2.1.4 Naming your units ](#Naming_your_units)
-   [ 3 Choosing brigades ](#Choosing_brigades)
-   [ 4 Leader management ](#Leader_management)
    -   [ 4.1 Leader command limits ](#Leader_command_limits)
        -   [ 4.1.1 Ranks and command limits
            ](#Ranks_and_command_limits)
        -   [ 4.1.2 Command capacity in attacks
            ](#Command_capacity_in_attacks)
        -   [ 4.1.3 Use of headquarters ](#Use_of_headquarters)
    -   [ 4.2 Choosing the right traits ](#Choosing_the_right_traits)
-   [ 5 Missions ](#Missions)
    -   [ 5.1 Support Attack ](#Support_Attack)
    -   [ 5.2 Synchronize Arrival ](#Synchronize_Arrival)
    -   [ 5.3 Support Defence / Reserves
        ](#Support_Defence_.2F_Reserves)
    -   [ 5.4 Anti-Partisan Duty ](#Anti-Partisan_Duty)
    -   [ 5.5 Strategic Redeployment ](#Strategic_Redeployment)
-   [ 6 Other concepts ](#Other_concepts)

##    **Beginner's guide to army management** 

###  Overview 

Don't panic! HoI2 is a complex game but it follows quite simple rules
which can be learned in quite a short time. That being said, even
veterans will eventually find something they didn't know about yet,
which makes HoI2 such a great game! This guide has been written for HoI2
Doomsday: Armageddon version 1.3(beta) but it should in essence be valid
for all game versions. Where obvious changes have occurred, there will
be a short note referring to what has changed.

If you feel something has been left out, feel free to edit this page and
add it (if you know the game).

##  Unit organization 

When examining your troops, you will notice that your army consists of a
number of divisions which are organized into "groups" (which will be
called *formations* from here). Each formation has a *leader* , is
located in one province and can perform one *mission* .

###  Setting up formations 

In HoI2 each formation acts as a monolithic structure in that it shares
the same leader and will perform each mission as a single unit. Since
"movement" is also considered a mission, the entire formation will move
at the speed of the slowest division in it. That means that you should
not mix totally different unit types (like tanks and foot infantry)
within the same formation.

As a general rule of thumb, each formation should consist of divisions
of the same type, like all foot infantry or all mountaineers. Some
brigades (artillery, anti-tank, anti-aircraft, heavy armor, super-heavy
armor) will slow your units down by a large percentage and should not be
used in formations which also include faster units. On the other hand,
engineer brigade increase the maximum movement speed of (most)
divisions, but will only result in a real speed increase if all of the
"slowest" divisions in the same formation are equipped with them.

####    Splitting, merging and moving divisions between formations 

If you have a lot of small formations in the same province, it can be
easier to just merge them and then reorganize that large formation into
several smaller ones than going through all the existing formations
individually. To merge two or more formations which are located in the
same province, select them and then click the *merge* button in the unit
info panel.

If you want to select only some of the formations located in a province,
first select them all (by holding down the left mouse button and then
moving the mouse diagonally, thus drawing a selection box; when you
release the mouse button, all formations within the selection box will
be selected). Then hold down the SHIFT key and left-click all formations
you don't want to have selected. Those will be removed from the
selection.

In order to throw unwanted divisions out of your formation, just select
the formation and then click the *reorganize* button in the unit info
panel. This will create a new formation which you can then assign all
the unwanted divisions from your original formation by clicking the "+"
and "-" buttons in the window popping up.

[TABLE]

Now if you want to move divisions between two formations which already
exist, just select both formations at once and click the *reorganize*
button. This will bring up the same window as above but won't create a
new formation, instead using the two existing ones.

####  Deploying troops from the redeployment pool 

When you have finished the production of a new unit, bought one via
diplomacy or messed up with strategic redeployment, those divisions will
be placed in the redeployment pool (the right-most button at the top
left screen). Since it is bad for your transport capacity to leave them
there, you should deploy them as soon as feasible on the map.

If you click a division in the redeployment pool, a list of all
reachable formations will appear at the left side of the screen and the
map will show valid deployment locations in green. Units can only be
deployed to provinces in the same "theatre", for the lack of a better
word. Since the exact logics of the theatre definition are too
complicated to be explained in a beginner's guide, a general rule of
thumb will have to do: All owned (not merely controlled) provinces which
can trace a direct land connection to your capital are valid deployment
locations.

If you chose a formation on the list and confirm the selection via the
button at the bottom of that list, the division will be added to the
specified formation. Beware of command limits, though (see leader
section below)! Should you instead click on one of the provinces shown
in green, a new formation will be created in the specified province and
the division will be added as that formation's first division. Thus it
is sometimes a good idea to deploy the first of a row of new units
directly on the map (creating a new formation) and then adding the
subsequent units to that formation using the formation list at the left
side.

####  Advice on formation setup 

Most players go with formations of three divisions for the bulk of their
army, while keeping specialist unit types (garrisons, paratroopers,
maybe even marines, mountaineers and armored divisions) in small
formations of just one division. This has two major advantages:

-   You will have many more leaders involved in combat compared to large
    formations of 9 or 12 divisions, all of them gaining experience and
    thus increasing in skill.
-   You can easily assign different missions to the units in the same
    province, like pre-planning advance several provinces deep with some
    of your units securing the conquered territory on their way. If you
    had only a few large formations, you would need to wait for the
    formation to arrive at the first province, wait until the attack
    delay wears off, then create a new formation using some divisions of
    the large one, assign a leader, possibly rename it and only then you
    could advance one province further with the large stack.
-   Also having all standard formations at size three and all special
    formations at a different size, you can quickly see what is what and
    are less likely to issue wrong orders to the wrong formations in the
    heat of battle.

Since there is a bonus for mixing hard and soft units within one
formation, and since only motorized infantry operate at a similar speed
as the armored divisions do, it is a common practise to set up [combined
arms formations](/Combined_Arms "Combined Arms") of 1 Arm and 2 Mot or
vice versa.

Commando units (mountaineers, paratroopers and marines) are used
differently than infantry or tanks, so they should be kept in separate
formations for each type, preferably commanded by a [commando
trait](/Leader_Traits "Leader Traits") leader.

Headquarters (HQ) play an important role in command limits on attack, so
it's important to have some near the active front lines. You can either
keep them in small (single division) formations behind the front or you
can create large "armies" by adding several other divisions to the HQ.
The latter method has the advantage that the HQ's leader (who should
always be a general or field marshal) can be used in the combat directly
without fearing to leave the HQ exposed, which is especially useful for
the major countries which have several highly-skilled top-rank leaders.
In order to recognize those important assets quickly (and for them to be
pleasant to the eye) it is a common method to set up "armies" of 1 HQ
and 5 Infantry divisions (or even 1 HQ, 2 armored and 2 motorized
divisions as fast combined arms armies). When using only six divisions,
all of them are shown at the same time in the formation info section at
the left side of the screen (no ugly scrollbar), plus it fits nicely
into the "dividable by three"-scheme which is important for avoiding
command limit penalties (see section about leaders below).

####  Naming your units 

When having a lot of formations, it can be confusing to have them called
"XIV. Armeekorps" or something similar. In order to rename a formation
(or division, or ship, or air wing), just select it and then left-click
on its name in the unit info panel on the left side. A cursor will
appear and you can type a new name. Be warned, though, using characters
like "-" or "+" won't work as those are keys which have a hardcoded
meaning for the game (like zooming the map).

It is recommended to use names which allow you to recognize the units
quickly, for example "Panzergruppe Rommel" for an armored formation led
by Rommel or "Inf (AT) / Hodges" for a formation consisting of Infantry
with anti-tank-brigades led by Hodges. Since garrisons cannot move or
attack, they should always be deployed in separate formations named
something like "GAR / \[province name\]" or even just "GAR", so you can
de-select them easily when issuing orders to multiple formations at
once.

##  Choosing brigades 

In HoI2 and its expansions, a brigade is an optional attachment to a
regular division (or air wing, or ship) which offers an additional boost
in some unit stats. It is common knowledge that - strictly
mathematically spoken - it is always more efficient to invest in more
divisions instead of brigades for existing divisions. This is because of
the game's combat system, which essentially operates at the formula
"total org \* total attack value = combat power". A standard division
adds about 50 org and 10+ attack, while no mix of brigades (at that very
same cost) can compete with that.

Yet, it can be beneficial to boost some of your divisions with brigades
in certain circumstances:

-   Special Forces, like marines or paratroopers, are usually operating
    in small numbers, so they will appreciate any additional "bang".
    Since both of these units are not supposed to travel longer
    distances over land (and thus they are not that dependant on high
    speed), it is usually advised to equip them with artillery brigades.
-   Expensive divisions, like armored or mechanized, are also good
    candidates for brigades. They form the centre of your spearhead
    attacks and will thus be able to make good use of additional
    firepower. Also, as they are so expensive, the brigades appear much
    more efficient in comparison. Last (but certainly not least), both
    division types have a very low softness rating to start with. Lower
    softness means less vulnerability to soft attack, which is the most
    abundant attack type in the (early) game. Further reducing that low
    softness by 6 points, as the self-propelled artillery brigade does,
    is - percentage wise - offering a much larger advantage here
    (30-\>24 equals a reduction of 20%) compared to the same point
    reduction on infantry divisions (100-\>94 equals a reduction of only
    6%).
-   Vulnerable divisions, like motorized infantry, absolutely need
    brigades in order to keep up with the advance of the sturdier tanks.
    For motorized divisions it is advised to use either armored car
    brigades (as those provide org, which is depleted quickly in
    movement-combat-movement situations) or self-propelled artillery
    (for its better attack and hardness).

A few notes on popular "newbie"-mistakes regarding brigades:

-   Engineers increase the maximum speed of the division, but not its
    speed cap. Some divisions (like Mountaineers starting from the '39
    model and all cavalry and HQ divisions) already are at their speed
    cap and will thus NOT get additional speed from Engineer brigades.
    Also, each division in the formation needs to have the engineer
    brigade in order to increase ACTUAL speed.
-   Defensiveness and toughness are surprisingly unimportant stats (one
    of the weaknesses of the combat system), so choosing brigades solely
    for the increase in those stats is a poor choice from a gameplay
    point of view.
-   Against the computer-controlled countries, you will never face a lot
    of "hard" divisions. Since hard attack is only used when enemy
    softness is quite low, the anti-tank and tank-destroyer brigades are
    considered utterly inefficient investments. Get artillery or
    self-propelled artillery instead. Those also offer some hard attack
    but, more importantly, they increase the much more widely used soft
    attack stat.

For further information, see the [brigade strategy
guide](/Brigade_Strategy_Guide "Brigade Strategy Guide") .

##  Leader management 

###  Leader command limits 

The most devastating newbie-mistake (yet very common on the forums) is
to not understand leader management. If you look at the tooltips in
combat, you will notice that attacker and defender use a certain
percentage rating which is applied on their raw stats. Ingenious
commanders can give a bonus of 10% if they are commanding units
according to their personal specialities, and envelopment manoeuvers can
invoke another bonus of 10% upwards. Now I tell you that units over the
command limit of their leader will receive a penalty of -75% on that
very same percentage, plus they lose the positive effects of the
commander. Maybe you will now realize that understanding command limits
is quite important - I'd even call it essential - to waging war
successfully.

####  Ranks and command limits 

Each leader has a rank which determines his (or her, in rare cases)
command capacity, i.e. the number of divisions he (or she) can command
directly without penalties. The ranks and their capacities can be seen
in game by reading the mouse-over-tooltip of the leader picture:

-   *Mj.Gen.* : can command **1 division**
-   *Lt.Gen.* : can command **3 divisions**
-   *General* : can command **9 divisions**
-   *Field Marshal* : can command **12 divisions**

You must always respect those command limits, or else all divisions in
that formation will lose the leader's bonuses plus the divisions above
the leader's command limit will additionally suffer from the OCL (over
command limit) penalty of -75%.

Note that you can promote leaders at will. They will increase in rank by
one level, while they will lose one skill point plus all experience they
have accumulated. To do this, click on the leader picture and then click
the button *promote* . By turning on auto-promotion, some of your
leaders will be promoted without the skill/experience loss when the
algorithm finds that you have too few leaders of sufficient rank for the
number of divisions you possess.

[TABLE]

####  Command capacity in attacks 

When on the defence, it is sufficient to have all of your formations led
by leaders of the appropriate rank. When on the offence, however, there
is another concept concerning leadership which you need to understand.

Imagine you have 24 infantry divisions ready to attack. Those divisions
are organized neatly into 8 formations consisting of three divisions
each. If all of them were located in the same province and ordered to
attack the same enemy province, you would get a **huge penalty on at
least half of your divisions** (provided there was no HQ nearby)!!! Did
you know that? The reason for that is simple in concept yet difficult to
see in the game: For each battle, all divisions attacking from the same
province are considered to be led by the highest ranking commander in
that province (who is participating in that combat). That commander,
however, still has the standard command capacity explained above. So the
highest possible rank is the Field Marshal, but even he has a command
capacity of 12 which would be vastly exceeded by the 24 divisions in our
example. A more thorough discussion on that subject can be found in the
[article about command
penalty](/Command_Penalty_Capacity "Command Penalty Capacity") , which
is also highlighting the usefulness of HQ divisions in regard to this
issue, which will be explained in the paragraph below.

This is where three important lessons are to be learned:

-   Always attack from more than one province if possible. This will not
    only help avoiding the OCL penalty mentioned here, but it will also
    invoke the *envelopement penalty* for the enemy if you attack from
    three or more provinces.
-   Always have at least one high-ranking leader in each province. Also,
    that high-ranking leader should ideally *not* lead the maximum
    allowed number of divisions directly, so that he can safely assume
    command of the whole province's contingent in case of an attack.
-   Always have a properly manned headquarter around. This is explained
    below.

####  Use of headquarters 

The headquarter unit itself is useless, apart from the later models'
high speed and its near invulnerability in ground combat. As soon as it
is being assigned to a General or Field Marshal, however, that very same
headquarter will instantly become a battlefield magician! It
miraculously **doubles the command limit of all adjacent leaders** on
the offense! In the example given in the paragraph above, a single HQ
division nearby led by a General or Field Marshal would have increased
the command limit of the Field Marshal (who is commanding the entire
stack of the province) to 24, enough to lead all of the infantry
divisions without penalty. Assuming that you were also attacking from
two other provinces (all of them also adjacent to the HQ) with the same
number of divisions and all featuring a field marshal to lead the
stacks, you would now be able to field a staggering 72 divisions against
the enemy without invoking any penalties. Isn't that great?

See [HQ units in action](/HQ_Units_in_Action "HQ Units in Action") for a
picture-rich illustration of the usage of HQ.

###  Choosing the right traits 

The wiki page on [leader traits](/Leader_Traits "Leader Traits") will
provide a detailed overview over the exact benefits of all the different
specialities your leaders can feature. Here you will be given a short,
neat rule of thumb as a starting point:

As long as you're at peace, your units will not need to fight and thus
it is a good idea to assign them leaders with the *logistics wizard*
trait. This will reduce their supply and oil consumption and will thus
free some industrial capacity for more pressing matters (like building
more industrial capacity, or more supply and oil hungry troops).

When the time for war approaches, you should assign leaders who match
both the unit type and the intended role of the formations, as each
"match" will yield a 10% bonus in combat. In general, leaders with
*offensive doctrine* or *defensive doctrine* are always good to have,
while *old guard* traits will only provide a penalty (slower experience
gain for the leader) and is thus considered useless (if not harmful).

Much more important, however, is the unit type speciality: Mountaineers,
marines and paratroopers a considered elite units and will thus need
special leadership which can only be provided by leaders with the
*commando* trait. Those leaders, however, will provide a penalty to each
unit which is no elite unit under their command, that's why you should
always keep them separate from your standard infantry.

Hard units, which are **only light armored, armored, and mechanized
divisions** , will require leaders with the *panzer leader* trait in
order to get a bonus. Panzer leaders will however not penalize non-hard
units, which is why the combined arms corps mentioned a few paragraphs
above are very effective.

Finally, when you think you'll fight in cold weather, a *winter
specialist* is also great to have. The *fortress buster* and *engineer*
traits have only very limited uses and should thus be considered a bonus
to other traits instead of being valuable assets themselves.

##  Missions 

Although this guide is not meant to be a combat guide, a few hints at
mission assignment shall be given nonetheless, as knowing about those
concepts is very important for a proper setup of your forces.

While you will probably know that there are the *movement* and *attack*
missions which will transport your divisions to another provinces
(either friendly or not), there is also the all important *support
attack* order (and a few more). You will come to love that one in
particular, as it allows you to multiply the number of troops involved
in battles without risking to create a gap in your defensive lines.

###  Support Attack 

Formations ordered to support the attack into one specific province will
automatically join any battle of friendly troops against enemy forces in
that said province. They will participate just like the original
attacker, but when the battle is won, they will simply stay where they
are, thus not creating a gap in your defenses. This has the huge
advantage of allowing many more troops to break the defenders than the
number of units actually advancing towards the enemy. You can thus open
additional vectors of attack without moving your troops, which will in
turn provide a penalty to the defender for being enveloped.

There are two disadvantages, however: First, your supporting units will
have to wait the 24 hours before they can receive new orders (although
support attack missions can be ordered anyway at any time), plus they
will lose the *dug in* bonus, if they had any. Also, Since they took
part in a battle, it is possible that they have suffered org or even
strength damage. Still, since support attack allows you to bring a huge
number of troops into battle, you will shorten the duration of the
battle and thus the damage received a lot by it. Use it as often as you
can!

###  Synchronize Arrival 

In order to prevent your formations from arriving peacemeal at their
destination, being torn apart by the viciously counter-attacking enemy,
always synchronize the arrival of your forces if you can! Select all
troops you want to arrive at the same time (by using the method
described in *Splitting, merging and moving divisions between
formations* ), hold CTRL and right-click the enemy province. Then check
the *synchronize arrival* checkbox. Be warned though that this checkbox
prevents the choice of the starting time of the attack, so it can only
be used directly prior to the assault.

###    Support Defence / Reserves 

Support Defence is an order given to a unit which will allow it to
support the defence of a named directly connecting province. When a
neighbouring province is attacked, or under attack, the unit performing
the support defence mission will immediately move at triple speed to the
attacked province, often arriving just in time to prevent the battle
being lost.

Reserves is a similar command but applies to any adjacent province but
the speed boost is only doubled.

###  Anti-Partisan Duty 

All units that are in a province will naturally suppress partisans to
their suppression statistic. Units specifically marked as being on
Anti-Partisan Duty do so at double effectiveness. Additionally, they
will also engage partisans who happen to spring up in a neighbouring
province and (if they are capable of movement) will after defeating
them, move into that province to recapture it, before moving back again.

###  Strategic Redeployment 

##  Other concepts 

Now that your army is prepared for war, you should learn how to use your
assets in order to win battles, and how to use battles in order to win
the war. For that, have a look at the following guides and reference
articles:

-   [Land Combat
    Efficiency](/Land_Combat_Efficiency "Land Combat Efficiency") - A
    very in-depth explanation of what effects combat performance and how
    the exact numbers are derived.
-   [Transport Capacity and Supply Efficiency
    FAQ](/Transport_Capacity_and_Supply_Efficiency_FAQ "Transport Capacity and Supply Efficiency FAQ") -
    A very good source of information about these important concepts.
    Especially the smaller countries have to watch out for TC, although
    it can also be a problem for Germany during Barbarossa.
-   [Country Guides](/Country_guides "Country guides") - A huge list of
    country-specific strategy guides. Not all of them are up to date,
    but for beginners they will still provide useful orientation.
-   [Conducting Blitzkrieg
    Offensives](/Conducting_Blitzkrieg_offensives "Conducting Blitzkrieg offensives") -
    A good article about Blitzkrieg warfare in the game, although it is
    a bit biased towards pure armored corps.
