---
title: "Conquering_ _What_do_I_gain?"
---

[Template:Anthology](/index.php?title=Template:Anthology&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Anthology (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 Importance of National Provinces
    ](#Importance_of_National_Provinces)
-   [ 2 How Do You See What Your National Provinces Are
    ](#How_Do_You_See_What_Your_National_Provinces_Are)
-   [ 3 Industrial Capacity ](#Industrial_Capacity)
-   [ 4 Resources ](#Resources)
-   [ 5 Manpower ](#Manpower)
-   [ 6 Partisans ](#Partisans)
-   [ 7 Puppets ](#Puppets)
-   [ 8 Colonies ](#Colonies)
-   [ 9 \db\misc.txt ](#.5Cdb.5Cmisc.txt)

##  Importance of National Provinces 

The game makes an important distinction between national and foreign
provinces. In national provinces, you get full use of the manpower,
resources, and industrial capacity. In foreign non-national provinces,
however, you only get fractional use of the manpower, resources, and
industrial capacity, plus you often get partisan problems that affect
your Transportation Capacity:

Industrial Capacity in foreign provinces: you get 20% plus any % added
by a minister that increases foreign IC. So a Prince of Terror would add
his 15% foreign IC to the base of 20% giving you 35% of foreign IC.

Resources in foreign provinces: you get about half the resources in a
foreign province.

Manpower in foreign provinces: there is a difference between the two
games. In HOI2 you get zero foreign manpower unless you have a minister
who has a foreign manpower trait. In Doomsday you get 10% of the
manpower plus more for a minister that has the foreign manpower trait.

##  How Do You See What Your National Provinces Are 

Use the diplomatic map mode. Then click on your country or on any
country. National provinces are displayed in green with a dark red
filled in bullet/circle. Some countries start some scenarios with
national provinces being owned by foreign countries: France owns Metz
but Germany has claims on it, so Metz is a national province for both
France and Germany. National provinces can also be created by events:
both Germany and the Soviet Union get a lot of national claims via the
historic events leading up to war.

##  Industrial Capacity 

The % gain that you get (20%) is controlled by a parameter in
\db\misc.txt This can be modified. Ministers with a foreign IC trait add
their percentage to this base. Note that foreign IC, however, is not
broken out and displayed anywhere in the game. In both the province and
the statistics folder page, you will see the number of factories in a
foreign province, not the actual amount of IC that you get. Foreign IC
is instead bundled into your base IC number. What you see is not what is
get!

##  Resources 

The amount of resources that you get is NOT set in \db\misc.txt The %
that you get is determined by the executable file and can not be
modified. The game also makes a distinction between controlled and
annexed provinces: you get 25% more resources when you own a province
rather than simply controlling a province. Typically you get about 50%
of resources in a normal difficulty level game from a foreign province
(the exact formula is described in this thread:
[http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?209413-Formula-for-resources-from-non-national-provinces](http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?209413-Formula-for-resources-from-non-national-provinces)
) Note that resources unlike IC is WYSIWYG: what you see is what you
get. Difficulty setting also affects the amount of resources that you
get when you control provinces.

##  Manpower 

This parameter is also set in \db\misc.txt In HOI2 you get zero manpower
from foreign provinces while in Doomsday you get 10% manpower. This
parameter in HOI2 is:

\# Non-National Province Manpower Multiplier (income per day.) Note:
Some types of ministers can affect this value.

0.0

In Doomsday, however, you get 10% manpower from this parameter:

\# Non-National Province Manpower Multiplier (income per day.) Note:
Some types of ministers can affect this value.

0.001

In both games, any foreign manpower % from a minister is added. Foreign
manpower like IC is not directly shown in the game: what you see is not
what you get.

In both games, there is an odd rule with capitals. When you have
provinces that are not directly connected back to your capital, you lose
all non connected manpower when you are at war. This would typically be
a situation where your capital is on an island or on a separate
continent: Japan, UK, USA, Australia, etc. are affected by this rule.
For the UK, this rule overrides the national manpower rule for provinces
in India: the UK loses the manpower in India when at war as does Japan
with the provinces it own on mainland Asia (such as Korea). Note that if
a country is somehow broken up in parts, manpower is lost from any
province when at war that does not a direct connection back to the
capital (allies or puppets break up a direct connection); one liberated
country that is affected by this is the Arab Federation because the
default liberated provinces leave Suez in control of the puppet master
and this cuts off a large part of this liberated country from it's
capital.

##  Partisans 

When you conquer provinces, you often get partisan problems that affect
your Transportation Capacity (TC)and which can have a small effect on
your base IC. The base number for partisans is affected by your slider
settings with open societies having fewer base partisans while closed
societies have more base partisan activity. Annexed versus occupied is
another parameter. Different parts of the world also have different
partisan settings: most of Africa and parts of Asia and the Pacific
islands have zero partisans while other areas have less than the
standard number of 25% partisan levels when annexed for a dictatorship.
The best ways to control partisan levels are garrison divisions on anti
partisan missions or by liberation. Partisan levels are also affected by
the partisan and nationalism parameters in \db\misc.txt

##  Puppets 

One way that you can get rid of long term partisan activity is to
liberate a puppet (diplomatic menu). Liberating a puppet usually lowers
your IC, which lowers your TC, but getting rid of partisans might
improve your TC when base partisan levels in conquered provinces are
high. Liberating a country gives you a dissent hit which is a direct
read from your democratic to authoritarian slider; note that in Doomsday
only, liberating a small country gives you 1/2 of the normal dissent.

If a puppet is liberated, it becomes part of your alliance and you can
military control their units via the diplomatic menu.

Countries that can be liberated are set up by the \db\revolt.txt file
which can be edited. This file uses province ID numbers which can either
be downloaded via Wiki or seen on screen by using the showid cheat.

Puppets get 100% use of the manpower, IC, and resources in their
(national) provinces. Puppets also give their puppet master any
resources greater than 1000, either automatically via a direct
connection with their puppet master or via convoys. Liberated countries
get all of your finished technology research, but they need to have at
least one port/airfield to get all the naval/air research accordingly.
This rule is most probably true for rocket and nuclear tech trees too
(build of rocket test site and nuclear reactor are prerequisite here).

When you are conquering another country, instead of annexing you can
sometimes try via the diplomatic menu to create a negotiated peace which
sets up a puppet. Countries in the three major alliances (Allies, Axis,
Cominterm) will almost never accept a peace offer, instead you must
annex them. If a country is not in these major alliances, you might
instead try to puppet them via a negotiated peace rather than annexing
them: if a country is puppeted via a negotiated peace, it retains it's
remaining military units, while an annexed country loses all of it's
armed forces.

##  Colonies 

There are a few tricky rules for colonies. Colonies give 10% of national
manpower instead of 100%. Colonies are considered to be foreign for IC
and resources unless they show up as national provinces: for the UK
contrast their national provinces in India with colonies in Kenya. If
the European powers want to liberate a country, they get a dissent hit;
how big that dissent hit is controlled by the colonial_release file
which is in your Doomsday \db\\ folder or in your HOI2 \db\events\\
folder (different places in different games). Note that there are
sometimes events which liberate colonies such as the UK liberating
India, and these events would have their own parameters for dissent or
other effects.

##    \db\misc.txt 

This folder has many game parameters for IC, TC, and combat. It can be
edited to suit your preferences. If you want to edit it, first make a
backup copy. Also by default this file and many others are write
protected, so you often need to first change the properties so that you
can edit it.
