---
title: "European_Soviets_Strategy"
---

gerneral strategy(abyss)

In this game your gonna have to think fast you need defences so first
proitey is start reshearing 36 infantry and tanks and the normal
industry then you dont wont to wait for 36 infantry nor the you want 18
infanrty so get some miltia and transports,miltia so you have some
defence and transports to transport your army to defend you european
holiding\`s. shortly after the game begins roma will ask to join you
allince accept you need all the help you can get accept all of the
reqeusts for the alliance because every game the same nations will want
to join your allince because of there govement type plus eventually
everyone will be at war in some point. so once you get better tanks and
infantry start producing all that you can make more infantry then tanks
and make sure you have a plan to get to berlin since prussia will more
than likly be you first enemy,when the war starts take it slow your in
no rush but as soon as roma starts geting more terioutry move fast your
goal is beriln because if you get that you will be able to annex pruissa
after it has no victory points left thus giving you the best tech teams
in the game the german tech team so you will then have a really good set
of tech teams. after that your only goal will probaly be protect your
borders and finish off the axis.

(extra) always protect all of your border becasue like i said every onre
will be at war at some point so have defence because all it takes is
your ally to dow on a nation bodering you and you to have no defence
when i play roma dow on bourdon so be ready for the unexpeced.
