---
title: "Germany_Strategy _Multiplayer_vs_USSR"
---

[Template:GermanyStrategyGuides](/index.php?title=Template:GermanyStrategyGuides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:GermanyStrategyGuides (page does not exist)")

##    Invasion of USSR (Against Player) 

Some things to note:

-   1\) You will be outnumbered 2 or 3 to 1.
-   2\) You may have oil shortages.
-   3\) Your tanks will be very important in the offensive.

There are a few large differences. You can not be certain of having a
superior army. A good soviet player will have medium tanks along with
1941 infantry for a lot of his front line divisions. He may also have
built fortifications to hold the line deep inside the USSR. The line may
run from Leningrad to Minsk around the marshes to Kiev and then down and
anchored on the black sea. Your opponent knows the only way you can win
is via encirclements. Therefore he will not be herded easily. Moreover,
he will also have counterattacks prepared. The Soviets have the manpower
to burn while you do not.

Therefore the basics of the attack change a little. The further into the
USSR you advance, the more vulnerable you are. Your lines of supply
increase greatly and your opponent will know how to take advantage of
that. If you make limited advances into eastern Poland and just barely
into the USSR you can try to make limited encirclements with greater
force. Use more tank units and infantry with an eye towards defending
against a counter attack.

Another good tactic is a big ruse. Move only limited groups to the front
and start your attack. Keep the bulk of your panzer armies near Memel
and down south just north of Slovakia. They will be your pincers. Try to
make your opponent think you are weak and he will start to think he can
counterattack and take Berlin easily. If he launches an attack quickly
you can then pretty much count on the fact he didn't reallocate his
forces properly for a proper offensive. It will be a limited offensive
or haphazard at best.

Once you get a good number of his units through your lines into your
rear close the trap. Your panzers can cut through his supply lines and
then build a wall of tanks preventing him from getting back to his
lines. Quickly eliminate them and try to punch a hole through his front
at the point of his attack.

Do not stray too far into Russian land unless you feel you can make a
good show of it. It is best if you to stay close to your own supply
lines to limit fuel waste and TC overload. Keep the battle fluid if you
have to fall back a little way then do so and stay mobile and push when
you can. The goal is not attrition in the typical sense you have to
destroy divisions. You can try the attrition route if you want but your
lack of technical superiority will make it harder to get straight
victory with massive MP losses to your opponent. If you go into a fight
and get 1 to 1 losses then you will lose. Germany does not have the MP
to go 1 to 1 with the USSR. Good Luck.
