---
title: "Guangxi_Clique"
---

Guangxi Clique may not have what it takes to become a major power, but
it can become a vital player in China's fight against Japan. As one of
the Chinese warlords, Guangxi Clique will automatically ally with the
rest of china if and when the Japanese DOW sometime in mid-1937. Your
first year and a half should be devoted to preparing for this war.

  

## Contents

-   [ 1 Military ](#Military)
-   [ 2 Diplomacy ](#Diplomacy)
-   [ 3 Economy and Tech Teams ](#Economy_and_Tech_Teams)
-   [ 4 The War Against Japan ](#The_War_Against_Japan)

##  Military 

You start out with a pretty good sized army, with a makeup of about 1/3
militia 2/3 '18 infantry. Overall, a well equiped army for such a small
nation. All focus should be directed at infantry. Some mountain and
cavalry troops might do some good as well, but a navy and airforce
should be ignored entirely. You lack the tech teams to research these
areas, and even if you do, the Imperial Japanese Navy will crush you.
(not tested as of yet, but building some interceptors might help in
keeping the japanese bombers out of your skies). Now you see why Guangxi
Clique does not have any chance of becoming a world power.

  

##  Diplomacy 

This area is quite straighforward. You have +199 relations with most of
the other Chinese factions. However, don't pursue an alliance with the
Nationalists right off the bat; for some reason they never accept. wait
until the Japanese invasion when the alliance will happen automatically.
If you want, you could go for the lands of Yunnan early on, and crush
them in a matter of months (the only limiting factor here is the
horrible Tc you'll have). This gives your troops some extra experience
while granting your industry a slight boost (around 6 IC). However, your
sliders all start out very far towards the right, and due to your
isolationist leanings you will get a massive dissent boost any time you
delcare war. Therefore, a strategy similar top that used for Argentina
will suffice. Stock up on supplies, then when the war starts, devote all
IC to consumer goods. The dissent should abate quickly. It will of
course be tempting to take Tibet and Sinkaing after you deal with
Yunnan, but their lands have nothing of interest, and a war in the
Himilayas is generally not a good idea. It will also tie up troops far
from the action once the war with Japan starts.

You can also pursue an alliance with [Yunnan](/Yunnan "Yunnan") if this
is done very early. Historically they were on opposite sides in the
[Central Plains War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Plains_War) ,
which is probably what the Guanxi clique war [Nationalist
China](/Nationalist_China "Nationalist China") gets is based on.

##  Economy and Tech Teams 

Lets face it- your economy is mediocre at best and you tech teams are
primarily suited for infantry research. You should have the technology
for '36 infantry by mid 1936. From here on out, you want to upgrade all
of your land forces; only train new units when all of the upgrades are
carried out.

  

##  The War Against Japan 
Guangxi Clique may not have what it takes to become a major power, but
it can become a vital player in China's fight against Japan. As one of
the Chinese warlords, Guangxi Clique will automatically ally with the
rest of china if and when the Japanese DOW sometime in mid-1937. Your
first year and a half should be devoted to preparing for this war.

  

## Contents

-   [ 1 Military ](#Military)
-   [ 2 Diplomacy ](#Diplomacy)
-   [ 3 Economy and Tech Teams ](#Economy_and_Tech_Teams)
-   [ 4 The War Against Japan ](#The_War_Against_Japan)

##  Military 

You start out with a pretty good sized army, with a makeup of about 1/3
militia 2/3 '18 infantry. Overall, a well equiped army for such a small
nation. All focus should be directed at infantry. Some mountain and
cavalry troops might do some good as well, but a navy and airforce
should be ignored entirely. You lack the tech teams to research these
areas, and even if you do, the Imperial Japanese Navy will crush you.
(not tested as of yet, but building some interceptors might help in
keeping the japanese bombers out of your skies). Now you see why Guangxi
Clique does not have any chance of becoming a world power.

  

##  Diplomacy 

This area is quite straighforward. You have +199 relations with most of
the other Chinese factions. However, don't pursue an alliance with the
Nationalists right off the bat; for some reason they never accept. wait
until the Japanese invasion when the alliance will happen automatically.
If you want, you could go for the lands of Yunnan early on, and crush
them in a matter of months (the only limiting factor here is the
horrible Tc you'll have). This gives your troops some extra experience
while granting your industry a slight boost (around 6 IC). However, your
sliders all start out very far towards the right, and due to your
isolationist leanings you will get a massive dissent boost any time you
delcare war. Therefore, a strategy similar top that used for Argentina
will suffice. Stock up on supplies, then when the war starts, devote all
IC to consumer goods. The dissent should abate quickly. It will of
course be tempting to take Tibet and Sinkaing after you deal with
Yunnan, but their lands have nothing of interest, and a war in the
Himilayas is generally not a good idea. It will also tie up troops far
from the action once the war with Japan starts.

You can also pursue an alliance with [Yunnan](/Yunnan "Yunnan") if this
is done very early. Historically they were on opposite sides in the
[Central Plains War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Plains_War) ,
which is probably what the Guanxi clique war [Nationalist
China](/Nationalist_China "Nationalist China") gets is based on.

##  Economy and Tech Teams 

Lets face it- your economy is mediocre at best and you tech teams are
primarily suited for infantry research. You should have the technology
for '36 infantry by mid 1936. From here on out, you want to upgrade all
of your land forces; only train new units when all of the upgrades are
carried out.

  

##  The War Against Japan 
