---
title: "Modding_misc.txt"
---

##  Economy 

**IC to TC ratio** - how much TC you get for every point of IC; Paradox
default is 1.5

**IC to Supplies ratio** - how many supplies are made per IC allocated
to supply production; Paradox default is 4

**IC to Consumer Goods Ratio** - assumedly how many consumer goods are
produced per IC allocated; Paradox default is 1

**IC to Money Ratio** - how much money is generated for every IC
allocated to CG production

**Max Gearing Bonus** - The lowest percentage of build time that a unit
may have due to gearing bonus. Example: if this value is 0.60 then at
maximum gearing bonus each unit only takes 60% of the normal build time
to produce. Lowering this value makes producing serial runs cheaper.
Raising this value enough makes serial runs pointless.

**Gearing Bonus Increment** - the amount of discount per unit of
gearing. Example: if this value is 0.08 then your second unit produced
serially will take 8% less time.

**IC Non-National Province Multiplier** - Paradox default is 0.2; This
is the percentage of actual IC you get from a province that you own
(i.e. after annexing) without being one of your national provinces.
Example: a Province has 10 IC in it but it isn't considered "national"
for your nation thus you only get 2 IC.

**IC Non-Owned Province Multiplier** - Paradox default is 0.2; This is
the percentage of actual IC you get from a conquered province you
control but not own (i.e. before annexing).

**TC Undeployed Division Load** - the amount of TC load per division
waiting to be deployed. Think of this as trains allocated to transport
the unit to the desired location.

**TC Occupied Province Load** - the TC load per conquered province.

**TC Land Division Load Multiplier** - multiplier of the normal TC load
for each land division.

**TC Air Division Load Multiplier** - same as for land divisions

**TC Naval Division Load Multiplier** - Paradox default for this is
0.333; i.e. each naval unit only uses one third of a TC point per supply
and fuel point it uses.

**TC Load from partisans** - how bad to partisans hurt your TC

**TC load factor from offensives** - Paradox default is 1.5; not sure
exactly what this does.

**TC Load from province dev** - the TC load from a province improvement
that hasn't been deployed.

**TC Load from bases in queue** - TC load for air or naval bases built
but not deployed. (Radar too???)

**National Province Manpower Multiplier** - how many manpower points per
day you receive per province manpower point (in National Provinces).

**Non-National Province Manpower Multiplier** - how many manpower points
per day you receive per province manpower point (in non-national
provinces) (i.e. how much manpower you can recruit from foreign lands).

**Colonial Province Manpower Multiplier** - believed to be like the
other manpower multipliers but this applies to "colonies" (aka provinces
not land connected to your capital).

**Requirement for "Influence Nation" to affect domestic sliders** - at
default value your IC/2 must be greater than the target nation's IC to
have a slider moved.

**Trickle-back factor for manpower from losses in battle** - at default
half of your manpower losses are added back into your manpower pool.

**Upgrade cost** - default value is 0.5; Note: the resulting value for a
unit can never be less than 1.0 (above 1.0 fractional build costs are
used).

##  Combat 

**Base chance to avoid hit if defences left.** - this is unused (as of
v1.1)

##  Research 
