---
title: "National_Security"
---

An overview of what various nations would consider tolerable
international conduct, 1936-41.

## Contents

-   [ 1 Spheres of Interest ](#Spheres_of_Interest)
-   [ 2 Spheres of Influence ](#Spheres_of_Influence)
-   [ 3 British Naval Security ](#British_Naval_Security)
-   [ 4 The Monroe Doctrine and Western Hemispheric Security
    ](#The_Monroe_Doctrine_and_Western_Hemispheric_Security)
-   [ 5 The Soviet Union ](#The_Soviet_Union)
    -   [ 5.1 The Soviet Union vs Germany
        ](#The_Soviet_Union_vs_Germany)
    -   [ 5.2 The Soviet Far East ](#The_Soviet_Far_East)
-   [ 6 Integrity of China ](#Integrity_of_China)
-   [ 7 Southeast Asia ](#Southeast_Asia)
    -   [ 7.1 US Attitude ](#US_Attitude)
    -   [ 7.2 The Japanese move into Southern Indochina and the US
        Embargo
        ](#The_Japanese_move_into_Southern_Indochina_and_the_US_Embargo)
-   [ 8 Footnotes ](#Footnotes)

###  Spheres of Interest 

The following were the approximate spheres of interest of the various
nations. Interfering in a sphere of interest would have caused anything
from alarm to a declaration of war depending on the relative power of
the interferer and the extent of their action.

**Great Britain** - most of the world, barring perhaps Mongolia/ [Tannu
Tuva](/Tannu_Tuva "Tannu Tuva") /Siberia/Xinjiang.

**France** - countries neighboring French territories, Central & Eastern
Europe.

**Germany** - countries neighboring German territories, Europe.

**Italy** - countries neighboring Italian territories, Mediterranean.

**USSR** - countries neighboring USSR.

**Japan** - countries neighboring Japanese territories, East and
Southeast Asia.

**USA** - Americas, Greenland, Philippines, eastern China, Southeast
Asia.

**China** - territories composing former Chinese Empire, including
Manchuria, Mongolia, [Tannu Tuva](/Tannu_Tuva "Tannu Tuva") , Xinjiang,
and Tibet.

**Small countries** - immediate neighbors.

*Note that only Japan, USSR, and other warlords would have been likely
to intervene against moves by Chinese warlords or Tibet. Pre-1937, Japan
intervened in the Northeast south to Shanghai and west into Inner
Mongolia. From the 1930s to 1954, the USSR interfered in Xinjiang and
involved itself in Mongolia's border disputes with China and Manchukuo.
Britain was the other major intervener in China, but avoided
confrontation except when its concessions were threatened.*

###  Spheres of Influence 

The following were the approximate spheres of influence of the various
nations. Interfering in a sphere of influence would have led to a
warning followed by a declaration of war in most cases.

**Great Britain** - the Americas & Greenland (in support of the US),
Iceland, Ireland, Belgium, Holland, Norway, Denmark, France, Spain,
Portugal, Egypt, South Africa, the Middle East (might have accepted a
Saudi invasion of Yemen), Iran, Afghanistan?, Thailand (esp. Kra
isthmus), Dutch East Indies, Australia, NZ.

**USSR** - Eastern Europe, Turkey?, Iran?, Afghanistan?, Mongolia.

**Japan** - Manchuria.

**USA** - Americas, Greenland, Philippines.

###  British Naval Security 

A transport loaded with troops and headed into the Atlantic, or in the
general direction of a British colony, would have been intercepted and
stopped by the Royal Navy.

For instance, in February/March 1941, British colonial governments were
advised to authorise military counter measures if the Japanese were to
move into Thailand west of 100°E or south of 10°N or their warships were
to move towards the Kra isthmus or cross the 6°N parallel between Malaya
and Borneo. ^([\[1\]](#cite_note-1))

###  The Monroe Doctrine and Western Hemispheric Security 

US isolationism was a policy that essentially only applied to wars
outside the Americas. Were a foreign imperial power to attempt to assert
control over a part of the Western Hemisphere (including Greenland), the
US would almost certainly respond militarily and with the support of
other American states. In such a case, the British would probably also
join in support.

Likewise, if one Latin American state were to attempt to conquer
another, that state would have been met by an alliance of US-backed
neighbors. The forming of coalitions to block expansionism was a
constant feature of Latin America after independence. Since the late
19th century, coalition wars were replaced by US intervention and
insistence on mediating over border disputes. The sentiment for
isolationism did not contradict this - while avoiding World War I, for
example, the US sent military expeditions to Mexico, Nicaragua, Haiti,
and the Dominican Republic. Although interventionism was renounced in
the Good Neighbor Policy of 1933, this policy in itself was aimed to
reduce Latin American resentment and help unify the hemisphere in the
face of potential foreign aggression.

###  The Soviet Union 

#####  The Soviet Union vs Germany 

The Soviet Union would never have surrendered. Compare Stalin with Lenin
and Chiang Kaishek. Despite unbelievable reverses in the Russian Civil
War (Lenin) and the Sino-Japanese War (Chiang), both of these leaders
fought on. Stalin was arguably more ferocious than either of these two
and his USSR had more to lose. Lenin was facing the defeat of his
revolution; Chiang, the recognition of puppet states; whereas Stalin was
looking at the potential enslavement and extermination of his people.

The best peace terms that Germany could have got, without the war to the
death that Hitler wanted, would probably have been something akin to
Brest-Litovsk where the USSR acknowledged the "independence" of the
non-Russian SRs. Lenin only accepted the terms of Brest-Litovsk because
he had no army, and even then it was deeply unpopular. It seems unlikely
that Hitler would have accepted a Brest-Litovsk prior to Stalingrad (if
then) or that Stalin would have agreed to one after then.

There is simply no way that a Soviet leader would have accepted a
western border at the Urals so long as they held territory to the west.
They had all fought in the Civil War and knew the near-impossibility of
reconquering Russia from Siberia.

#####  The Soviet Far East 

Siberia and the Far East, on the other hand, were more expendable. If a
combined east-west offensive imperiled the existence of the USSR, it
would probably have opted to cede large territories in the east until it
could consolidate its hold on the west (similar to what happened in the
Russian Civil War).

Depending on the composition of the invaders, such cessions might have
included a combination of the following: "returning" Outer Manchuria and
Vladivostok to Manchukuo, North Sakhalin to Japan, part of central Asia
to Xinjiang, recognising the "independence" of a Far Eastern republic
extending from Irkutsk or Baikal to perhaps Kamchatka and Chukotsk,
recognising an "independent" Yakutia, and/or accepting Japanese
influence over an enlarged Mongolia (Inner, Outer, [Tannu
Tuva](/Tannu_Tuva "Tannu Tuva") , ...?). Historically, a few of these
cessions would probably have been enough to satisfy Japan. It's main aim
was to protect the home islands and Manchuria - once a suitable buffer
had been established, it would probably have been more interested in
preserving a weakened but independent Russia than in conquering Siberia.

###  Integrity of China 

Tibet, Xinjiang, [Tannu Tuva](/Tannu_Tuva "Tannu Tuva") , Mongolia, and
Manchuria were considered integral parts of China by both the KMT and
the CCP. While a Great Power might have intervened in these areas
without creating a war with China, any such act would have resulted in
Chinese resentment (and probable denouncement by the US).

###  Southeast Asia 

In 1922, Japan guaranteed the inviolability of the Dutch East Indies as
part of a general agreement with the US, Britain, France and Holland to
maintain the status quo in Southeast Asia.

#####  US Attitude 

With the exception of granting colonies independence, the US frowned
upon any attempts to alter the 1922 status quo. Even the perfectly
reasonable attempt by Siam to renegotiate its borders with \[Vichy\]
French [Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") was met with unflinching US
opposition, even though the British made efforts to persuade them
otherwise.

Despite this attitude, the US refused to make any solid security
guarantees to either the British or the Dutch. By July 1941, in the wake
of Barbarossa, the US decided it would would respond to the next overt
Japanese act with an economic embargo. This overt act was to be the
Japanese push into southern Indochina later that month.

#####  The Japanese move into Southern Indochina and the US Embargo 

On July 23, Vichy permitted Japan to establish naval and air bases in
Southern Indochina (troops began landing on July 28 - prior to this
Japanese control did not extend south of Hanoi on the game map (an
important historical detail that HOI2 ignores)). On July 26, FDR
responded by freezing Japanese assets in the US. On August 17, the
Japanese were told that if they took further steps toward military
domination of their neighbors, the US would do whatever it deemed
necessary to safeguard US interests. On December 3, FDR commented to the
British that a Japanese attack on the Dutch East Indies would be easy to
present to the US public as a threat to encircle the Philippines. This
was enough to instill confidence in the British that America would join
them in coming to Dutch aid if the East Indies were invaded.

The US response to Japan's move into southern Indochina was rather
severe given that Japan was already in the north and the deployment of
its troops south met no French resistance (indeed, the US acted before
Japan actually moved in). This suggests that any further major act of
aggression on Japan's part would have been met by war with the US. That
realisation, plus the impact of the embargo, may have been instrumental
in determining that Japan's next attack would fall on Pearl Harbor
rather than Vladivostok (as British intelligence had believed in July).

##  Footnotes 

1.   [↑](#cite_ref-1) Tarling, Nicholas (1996). *Britain, Southeast Asia
    and the onset of the Pacific war* . Cambridge University
    Press. p. 225. ISBN 0-521-55346-6.
