---
title: "Naval_unit_statistics"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 Sea Units ](#Sea_Units)
    -   [ 1.1 Battlecruiser ](#Battlecruiser)
    -   [ 1.2 Battleship ](#Battleship)
    -   [ 1.3 Carrier ](#Carrier)
    -   [ 1.4 Destroyers ](#Destroyers)
    -   [ 1.5 Heavy Cruiser ](#Heavy_Cruiser)
    -   [ 1.6 Light Cruiser ](#Light_Cruiser)
    -   [ 1.7 Submarines ](#Submarines)
    -   [ 1.8 Transports ](#Transports)
-   [ 2 Seabrigade Units ](#Seabrigade_Units)
    -   [ 2.1 Carrier Air Group ](#Carrier_Air_Group)
-   [ 3 Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 ](#Doomsday_1.0_-_1.3)

##  Sea Units 

###  [Battlecruiser](/Battlecruiser "Battlecruiser") 

Battlecruisers are very heavy cruisers that combine large main guns and
good armor with reasonable speed and a good range. They are mainly used
against enemy shipping lanes, able to outrun enemy battleships and able
to outfight convoy escorts.

[TABLE]

###  [Battleship](/Battleship "Battleship") 

The Battleship is the Queen of the Sea. It is a massive floating gun
platform, designed primarily to engage enemy capital ships at long range
and send them to the bottom of the ocean. However, they are now
vulnerable to air or submarine torpedo attacks, and the advent of the
Aircraft Carrier has started to number their days.

[TABLE]

###  [Carrier](/Carrier "Carrier") 

The Aircraft Carrier is rapidly becoming the most important naval
vessel. Its ability to project power through the aircraft it carries
makes it dangerous to other capital ships and land forces. However, the
ship itself is only lightly armed and must rely on other naval units, as
well as its own aircraft, to afford it protection.

[TABLE]

###  [Destroyers](/Destroyers "Destroyers") 

The Destroyer is the smallest and the fastest of the surface ships. It
is lightly armed in comparison with the battleship, but its speed and
maneuvrability allow it to provide a good first line of defence away
from the main capital ships of a fleet, and its light guns are useful
for engaging aircraft. Destroyers are usually combined in groups and
used for convoy escort and anti-submarine duties.

[TABLE]

###  [Heavy Cruiser](/Heavy_Cruiser "Heavy Cruiser") 

Heavy Cruisers are larger and more heavily armored than their lighter
counterparts. They have larger main guns, giving them the ability to
bombard enemy units on land. They are effective against enemy surface
ships, especially destroyers and light cruisers, but are susceptible to
air and submarine attacks.

[TABLE]

###  [Light Cruiser](/Light_Cruiser "Light Cruiser") 

Light Cruisers are little more than large destroyers. They are usually
lightly armored to give good speed and range. They are normally used in
an escort role for capital ships like battleships or carriers, granting
protection mainly from enemy air attacks, but also from enemy
submarines.

[TABLE]

###  [Submarines](/Submarine "Submarine") 

The Submarine is designed to travel underwater allowing it to operate
clandestinely against other naval units. Its main armament consists of
torpedoes which are deadly against all other types of vessel, be they
Carrier, Battleship, Naval Transport or another Submarine. However, the
Submarine can be handicapped by a short range and new technologies to
improve them can be expensive.

[TABLE]

###  [Transports](/Transport "Transport") 

Naval Transports are used for moving supplies and resources around the
world. They can also be used to ferry land units across stretches of
water. They are completely unarmed and, unless well protected, will be
vulnerable to attack by other naval units or aircraft.

[TABLE]

##  Seabrigade Units 

###  [Carrier Air Group](/Carrier_Air_Group "Carrier Air Group") 

Carrier Air Groups represent the complement of planes stationed on
carriers. They are usually a mix of fighters, torpedo and dive bombers
which provide both protection for the carrier and allow it to strike
enemy ships at a large distance.

[TABLE]

#  Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 

Available as a PDF file: [Sea Unit
Statistics](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=UnitStats_DD12_Sea.pdf "UnitStats DD12 Sea.pdf")
. Also, a complete Excel file is available: [DD UnitStats v1.2 Excel
File](http://joe-s.home.insightbb.com/hoi2dd.htm)
