---
title: "Poor_mans_army"
---

[Template:HOI2
v1.3](/index.php?title=Template:HOI2_v1.3&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:HOI2 v1.3 (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 Introduction ](#Introduction)
-   [ 2 Economics - Managing Scarce Resources
    ](#Economics_-_Managing_Scarce_Resources)
-   [ 3 Self-Defence Forces - Guns or Butter
    ](#Self-Defence_Forces_-_Guns_or_Butter)
    -   [ 3.1 A discussion on Footsoldiers
        ](#A_discussion_on_Footsoldiers)
    -   [ 3.2 A discussion on Brigades ](#A_discussion_on_Brigades)
-   [ 4 Air Force ](#Air_Force)
-   [ 5 Navy ](#Navy)
-   [ 6 Research - Tree climbing on paper
    ](#Research_-_Tree_climbing_on_paper)
    -   [ 6.1 Research Basics ](#Research_Basics)
    -   [ 6.2 Industrial Research ](#Industrial_Research)
    -   [ 6.3 Military Research ](#Military_Research)
    -   [ 6.4 Other Research ](#Other_Research)
-   [ 7 Definitions for this text ](#Definitions_for_this_text)

##  Introduction 

Although the major powers in the HOI2 environment have hundreds of ICs,
tech teams and manpower at their disposal, some aren't so lucky. This
guide will focus on those unlucky countries whose Industrial Capacity
only reaches the high 30's, if they're lucky. But they're not.

##  Economics - Managing Scarce Resources 

As stated earlier, ICs can be scarce, thus building more can be of
importance in developing a self-reliance on Consumer Goods, Supplies and
such. Unlike major powers, some countries do not have the technical
know-how to do this from the start. In which case, research into "Basic
Construction Engineering" should be funded. Then again, one can also
develop a foreign policy of converting non-domestic ICs to domestic, but
this probably requires some military might - then again, you know you
want to.

##  Self-Defence Forces - Guns or Butter 

It is still possible for relatively small powers to attain a capable
military force. In most cases, however, this will only be limited to a
ground force with light equipment. Although different types of
[Infantry](/Infantry "Infantry") is discussed in [On the subject of
ground troop
investments](/On_the_subject_of_ground_troop_investments "On the subject of ground troop investments")
, the units discussed there are of less interest for the minor or micro
powers, since Infantry is the only real viable option with its
versatility and affordability.

[Minor power](/Minor_power "Minor power") 's and [Micro
power](/Micro_power "Micro power") 's will probably be more focused on
analysing the different aspects of [Infantry versus
Militia](/Militia_Strategy_Guide "Militia Strategy Guide") or
[Garrison](/Garrison_Division "Garrison Division") troops.

###  A discussion on Footsoldiers 

The major units reviewed and compared here will be the early Infantry
('18, '36), Garrison ('18) and Militia ('36)

  
\[Table 1 - Infantry ('18, '36), Garrison ('18), Militia ('36) and
Cavalry ('18, '36)\]

  
When comparing Infantry ('18) and Garrison ('18) one can only see slight
differences in combat capability in favor of Infantry. The difference
between Infantry ('18) and Militia ('36) is quite big, however. Militias
have no HA, only 40 % of Infantry SA, 61 % of Defensiveness, almost no
Toughness, and lower Air Defence and Suppression capabilities.

The main disadvantage of Infantry is however that they are very costly
for small powers. In comparing the economical aspects of the different
types of divisions, Militias are, by far, the cheapest to both field and
maintain (although they can be a possible manpower drain). Supply-wise,
they cost only a fifth of Infantry and slightly half of Garrison ('18).

In relation to Militia, until the development of "Rear Area Supply
Dumps", Garrisons are completely fixed. In a small state with only one
or two VP locations, this might not be of major defence concern.
However, when waging a war of aggression, "Rear Area Supply Dumps" are
essential in safeguarding the rear. This is however something that can
be done by Militia units as well, but the higher Suppression values of
Garrisons (4 compared to 1 for Militias) and better combat
characteristics of a Garrison can almost guarantee a safe rear.

In conclusion, one could say that Infantry is the backbone of any Ground
Self-Defence Force, with Garrisons securing the strategic terrain (VP or
IC concentrations etc.), both assisted by Militias, that is capable of
holding off numerically inferior units from the Great War (with the
exceptions of Armor). This is however a largely defensive land doctrine;
an option might thus be to add a component mostly dismissed by Major
powers: Cavalry.

For minor and micro powers,
[Cavalry](/Cavalry_Division "Cavalry Division") can be vital, since its
basically just as tough as Infantry, but almost twice as fast, and thus
capable of penetrating into enemy territory much faster. On the
economical side, there isn't much difference, but Cavalry consume 20 %
more supplies and take a whole extra IC when in training!

###  A discussion on Brigades 

As a result of the economic restrictions [Minor
power](/Minor_power "Minor power") 's and [Micro
power](/Micro_power "Micro power") 's (MMPs) have, and the effect this
has on research, it might be fair to state that the
[Brigades](/Brigade_Strategy_Guide "Brigade Strategy Guide") available
to there states will generally not be of the self propelled ones, with
the exception of Armored Cars. To this one can assume that the stats
will at most get Basic or Improved kit.

**Engineers** - This is probably one of the most cost effective Brigades
one can acquire as a MMP. It increases both Defence (5), Toughness (3)
and Speed (0.5). On the supply side, it roughly consumes as much as a
Militia, yet can have the drawback of actually needing Fuel (0.1).
Compared to the other brigades it is generally slightly less costly to
field (4ICs) and can be ready for deployment in only 45 days.

All in all, it can give your precious units the extra needed protection
they need, both on the defence and on the offence (especially when
crossing rivers etc.), and ability to move slightly faster. It does
however require that you research "Rear Area Supply Dumps".

**Artillery** - If you're aiming to boost your ability to decimate the
enemies soft targets this is a good add-on. It also gives a slight boost
to Defence (2+) yet slows your units down (Speed -1), especially if you
are fielding Heavy Artillery from the Great War (-2)

**Anti-tank/air** - Since you probably won't have access to Armor/Air,
chances are your enemy MMPs won't either. However, having the
possibility to manufacture Early/Basic Brigades of these types can be
beneficial should the need arise. This is especially true for AA if you
do not have and airforce capable of intercepting enemy bombers
Otherwise, producing Engineers or Artillery is more suitable (if you can
supply them).

**Police** - With a limited boost to Organization (3%), this element
focuses more on the social dimensions that comes with holding ground.
Since you might not have several divisions to suppress the risk of
revolt in a province, this might be a cost saving alternative. Hardly
needing a large industry over periods of time (2IC á 35d), it neither
uses upp more supplies than an Engineer Brigade.

**Armored Car** - Although it does give a slight boost to Suppression,
it also increases the combat characteristics of the unit it's attached
to (2SA, 1Defence, 1Toughness) as well as increasing the units
Organization (5%). On the logistical side it uses up as much resources
as Early Artillery, yet it uses 60% more Fuel as an Engineering unit. It
is however rather cheep to field (3ICs).

##  Air Force 

Although having an air force is possible for a minor power, having a
decent one that is up to date is probably more of a problem. One has to
evaluate what type and what role the air force is to play. Also, with
the limited industrial capacity your country has, every IC put into the
air force has to count. See the [Effective Use of
Airpower](/Effective_Use_of_Airpower "Effective Use of Airpower") posted
in the associated guides section.

Since the country only has a limited amount of ICs and thus only a few
research slots (with probably lousy tech teams), you should carefully
plan what you research. Both the strategic and CAS options are highly
specialized towards their specific unit types. The tactical option does
however give you a wide range of options since tactical bombers are so
versatile. They can fill the role of all the other bombers (although not
as perfect).

The tactical branch of the tech tree also gives you ability to do
airborne assaults and boosts the organization of naval bombers as well.
This latter part might be of great value if your country is situated by
the sea yet has little or no navy - that, unlike naval bombers, cannot
be upgraded.

When it comes to fighter cover, there might only be very little room for
expansion and maintenance, especially since both AA guns and AD brigades
are probably a more affordable alternative. Escort fighters can be of
interest however in keeping your bombers safe.

    Hearts of Iron 2: Doomsday
    In HOI2:DD, Escort fighters are managed and produced like Brigades attached to bombers. 
    Thus, this might be a very affordable way of keeping your bombers safe from enemy fighters.

    Also there is a tech in the tactical branch of the tech tree that gives +30% bonuses to 
    most tactical air missions. 

##  Navy 

See the [Naval Primer](/Naval_Primer "Naval Primer") in the Associated
Guides section.

Yes, a navy is possible but the same rule applies to the air force - one
needs to trim the tree. Every navy needs a capital ship and a support
ship. Of the capital ships the only choice is the heavy cruiser. It is
the cheapest out of the three and it can perform shore bombardments. Now
the heavy cruisers will need to be screened and the destroyers are
perfect for it. Cheap and able to fend off submarines. when building
them have at last a 1:1 ratio of capital ships to screens. The doctrine
of choice for your fleet should the British one or the German one if you
with to include submarines in your fleet. Submarines are also a great
choice for a minor power. They can give the punch against the more
expensive capital ships and are not expensive to build. Remember, ships
cannot be upgraded and my suggestion is to build only the type of ship
you need on Level 4 and above. If you do know you will enter a sea
conflict before 1939 then level 3 ships are acceptable.

So all in all it is simple. Heavy cruisers, destroyers and possibly
submarines all at level 4 that are improved through sealane interdiction
doctrine(if subs are built) or the "fleet in in being" (British
doctrine).

##  Research - Tree climbing on paper 

###  Research Basics 

Everything that is explained on the [research](/Research "Research")
page obviously applies to smaller nation research too, so reading that
is a very good start. Research for small nations in a short version
looks a lot like this:

-   Never research ahead of time. Bigger nations can do that, as they
    usually have the more tech slots and better tech teams. You however,
    as small nation, usually have bad tech teams, so researching ahead
    of time would be a lot of wasted time taking into consideration that
    you only have 1 or maybe 2 tech slots.
-   Research techs with blueprints first. If you perhaps have an ally
    that gives you blueprints, it is very wise to research the techs you
    have blueprints of first. Sometimes you might want another tech
    researched first. But nothing is more frustrating then researching a
    tech and when you reach 80% your ally suddenly gives you a
    blueprint, as that means a lot of wasted research time.
-   Matching fields of expertise. Get as much as possible matching
    fields of expertise.
-   Skill levels. Always research with the highest possible skill level.
-   Don't research anything you don't need!

###  Industrial Research 

Important techs to research are no doubt the Machine Tools techs. They
give you an extra 5% Industrial Efficiency each, and give your small
economy a big boost. Being a small nation you usually have low manpower,
but also low IC. So running out of manpower wont happen soon. It is
however not a bad idea to research the Agriculture tech line, giving you
5% Manpower Growth bonus for every researched tech. That extra manpower
might be handy if you go to war. If you find yourself having extra
slots, and no techs to research left that year, researching the
Cryptography tech line or a few of them also isn't a bad idea. It's not
necessary however as your enemies probably wont have them researched
either. Don't bother researching any other techs, as you wont either
have the tech teams for them, or the time, or the IC to build them after
researching them. (e.g. Rockets, Radar, Nuclear Bombs)

###  Military Research 

Being a small nation, you probably only have infantry, so that's also
where your research focus will be. You can try researching a bit of
naval and air if you really need them, but it will cost you a lot of
time. Concentrating on Infantry means that you will only be researching
new Infantry Divisions, and some important techs. The Rear Area Supply
Dumps is fairly important, as it lets you build Engineers, but mostly of
all Strategically Redeploy your units. If you have cavalry, Researching
new versions of them also isn't a bad idea. Also you might want to
research new versions of whichever brigade you are using. I suggest
using/researching Artillery brigades, as they don't take very long to
research. Doctrine research is another very important thing for a small
nation. It's a way to upgrade your army without having to use your
valuable small IC for it. Here I advice to only research land doctrines,
as there are really too much air doctrines to even begin there before
they have a decent effect, and naval research also requires you to
research a lot of doctrines you're not interested in before you could
ever research those few that would be interesting. The only naval
doctrine that might be interesting is the Convoy Sailing Doctrine,
because it will allow you to build convoy escorts, and they might be
vital if you ever plan on attacking a country abroad. The Land Doctrine
that you should research is usually the on that you start with in the
beginning, as for those, you'll most likely only have one tech team,
specialized for the doctrine you start with. Don't bother researching
any doctrine you don't have matching fields of expertise for, as that
will literally take years to complete.

###  Other Research 

If you have researched everything stated above and still have spare
research slots, I think you aren't playing a small country, and should
be reading another guide. Normally you will never reach any secret
weapons, or very advanced doctrines or units.

##  Definitions for this text 

[Minor Power](/Minor_Power "Minor Power") - Less than 40 ICs  
[Micro Power](/Micro_Power "Micro Power") - Less than 10 ICs  
MMP - Minor and Micro powers  
