---
title: "Technology_and_Research_FAQ"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 Technology and Research ](#Technology_and_Research)
    -   [ 1.1 How many tech teams slots can a country have?
        ](#How_many_tech_teams_slots_can_a_country_have.3F)
    -   [ 1.2 Why isn't Rolls-Royce in the game?
        ](#Why_isn.27t_Rolls-Royce_in_the_game.3F)
    -   [ 1.3 What effect does blueprint have?
        ](#What_effect_does_blueprint_have.3F)
    -   [ 1.4 What is the difference between blue and red specialties?
        ](#What_is_the_difference_between_blue_and_red_specialties.3F)
    -   [ 1.5 Why the last part (fifth) of the research sub-topic seem
        to take longer time than the others?
        ](#Why_the_last_part_.28fifth.29_of_the_research_sub-topic_seem_to_take_longer_time_than_the_others.3F)
    -   [ 1.6 What effect does it have if I have research team with
        matching specialty with my research topic?
        ](#What_effect_does_it_have_if_I_have_research_team_with_matching_specialty_with_my_research_topic.3F)
    -   [ 1.7 What's the deal with oil conversion techs?
        ](#What.27s_the_deal_with_oil_conversion_techs.3F)
    -   [ 1.8 What do Encryption/Decryption technologies actually do?
        ](#What_do_Encryption.2FDecryption_technologies_actually_do.3F)

#  Technology and Research 

###    How many tech teams slots can a country have? 

Countries can have a maximum of 5. Each country starts with one. For
every 20 base IC (modifiers do not matter for this), a country gets 1
more tech team slot. 20 to 39 base has two slots, 40 to 59 base has
three slots, 60 to 79 base has four slots, and 80+ means the maximum of
5 slots.

###    Why isn't Rolls-Royce in the game? 

From **Johnny Cannuck** :  
*In terms of Rolls-Royce, the decision was made to exclude it on the
basis that the major British aircraft manufacturers were already
included, such as Supermarine. Not having Rolls-Royce does not in any
real way affect the ability of the British to research aircraft techs.*

This same theory also applies to other tech teams, organizations, and
corporations that exist in the real world but are not present in the
game. Oftentimes, they simply duplicate what is already in a nation's
tech team list and do not add anything new to the nation's ability to
research tech. This is most commonly seen in tech tree branches that are
linear, like nuclear research or synthetic oil production. You may only
research one of these techs at a time, so there is really no need for
other teams in the game that have the same skills.

###    What effect does blueprint have? 

It halves the research time.

###    What is the difference between blue and red specialties? 

Red denotes doctrines.

###    Why the last part (fifth) of the research sub-topic seem to take longer time than the others? 

The last part of many research categories take twice as long as the
other sub-topics. Unfortunately there is no sure-fire in-game way of
knowing whether a particular category has a double_time last component.
Although a good rule of thumb is that if the last component is named
either "prototype" or "processes" it will take twice as long as normal.
Version 1.2 highlights the difficult component with a very high value
e.g. 20.

###    What effect does it have if I have research team with matching specialty with my research topic? 

The sub-topic that uses that matching specialty will have the research
time halved. There is much more information available in the
[Research](/Research "Research") guide.

###    What's the deal with oil conversion techs? 

See the primer on
[Energy_to_Oil_Conversion](/Energy_to_Oil_Conversion "Energy to Oil Conversion")
.

###    What do Encryption/Decryption technologies actually do? 

The Army Detection chance modifiers affect your ability to see what type
of units and exactly how many your enemy has. That is, if your
decryption is higher than the enemy's encryption, you gain information
on unit composition, numbers, etc, and it works in reverse as well,
hiding the true composition of your forces from the enemy.

Surprise Chance modifiers are applied to combat efficiency. When you
attack a territory, you may surprise your enemy, gaining a 20% bonus.
You may check for this bonus by holding the cursor over any unit in
combat.

IntOp Chance modifiers are used to determine various events within the
game, such as stealing blueprints, sabotage events, and assassination
attempts. The true mechanism for triggering these events remains a
mystery.
## Contents

-   [ 1 Technology and Research ](#Technology_and_Research)
    -   [ 1.1 How many tech teams slots can a country have?
        ](#How_many_tech_teams_slots_can_a_country_have.3F)
    -   [ 1.2 Why isn't Rolls-Royce in the game?
        ](#Why_isn.27t_Rolls-Royce_in_the_game.3F)
    -   [ 1.3 What effect does blueprint have?
        ](#What_effect_does_blueprint_have.3F)
    -   [ 1.4 What is the difference between blue and red specialties?
        ](#What_is_the_difference_between_blue_and_red_specialties.3F)
    -   [ 1.5 Why the last part (fifth) of the research sub-topic seem
        to take longer time than the others?
        ](#Why_the_last_part_.28fifth.29_of_the_research_sub-topic_seem_to_take_longer_time_than_the_others.3F)
    -   [ 1.6 What effect does it have if I have research team with
        matching specialty with my research topic?
        ](#What_effect_does_it_have_if_I_have_research_team_with_matching_specialty_with_my_research_topic.3F)
    -   [ 1.7 What's the deal with oil conversion techs?
        ](#What.27s_the_deal_with_oil_conversion_techs.3F)
    -   [ 1.8 What do Encryption/Decryption technologies actually do?
        ](#What_do_Encryption.2FDecryption_technologies_actually_do.3F)

#  Technology and Research 

###    How many tech teams slots can a country have? 

Countries can have a maximum of 5. Each country starts with one. For
every 20 base IC (modifiers do not matter for this), a country gets 1
more tech team slot. 20 to 39 base has two slots, 40 to 59 base has
three slots, 60 to 79 base has four slots, and 80+ means the maximum of
5 slots.

###    Why isn't Rolls-Royce in the game? 

From **Johnny Cannuck** :  
*In terms of Rolls-Royce, the decision was made to exclude it on the
basis that the major British aircraft manufacturers were already
included, such as Supermarine. Not having Rolls-Royce does not in any
real way affect the ability of the British to research aircraft techs.*

This same theory also applies to other tech teams, organizations, and
corporations that exist in the real world but are not present in the
game. Oftentimes, they simply duplicate what is already in a nation's
tech team list and do not add anything new to the nation's ability to
research tech. This is most commonly seen in tech tree branches that are
linear, like nuclear research or synthetic oil production. You may only
research one of these techs at a time, so there is really no need for
other teams in the game that have the same skills.

###    What effect does blueprint have? 

It halves the research time.

###    What is the difference between blue and red specialties? 

Red denotes doctrines.

###    Why the last part (fifth) of the research sub-topic seem to take longer time than the others? 

The last part of many research categories take twice as long as the
other sub-topics. Unfortunately there is no sure-fire in-game way of
knowing whether a particular category has a double_time last component.
Although a good rule of thumb is that if the last component is named
either "prototype" or "processes" it will take twice as long as normal.
Version 1.2 highlights the difficult component with a very high value
e.g. 20.

###    What effect does it have if I have research team with matching specialty with my research topic? 

The sub-topic that uses that matching specialty will have the research
time halved. There is much more information available in the
[Research](/Research "Research") guide.

###    What's the deal with oil conversion techs? 

See the primer on
[Energy_to_Oil_Conversion](/Energy_to_Oil_Conversion "Energy to Oil Conversion")
.

###    What do Encryption/Decryption technologies actually do? 

The Army Detection chance modifiers affect your ability to see what type
of units and exactly how many your enemy has. That is, if your
decryption is higher than the enemy's encryption, you gain information
on unit composition, numbers, etc, and it works in reverse as well,
hiding the true composition of your forces from the enemy.

Surprise Chance modifiers are applied to combat efficiency. When you
attack a territory, you may surprise your enemy, gaining a 20% bonus.
You may check for this bonus by holding the cursor over any unit in
combat.

IntOp Chance modifiers are used to determine various events within the
game, such as stealing blueprints, sabotage events, and assassination
attempts. The true mechanism for triggering these events remains a
mystery.
