---
title: "US_Strategy _1939_Scenario"
---

[TABLE]

[Template:NonVanilla](/index.php?title=Template:NonVanilla&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:NonVanilla (page does not exist)")
[Template:VersionSpecific](/index.php?title=Template:VersionSpecific&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:VersionSpecific (page does not exist)")
[Template:USAStrategyGuides](/index.php?title=Template:USAStrategyGuides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:USAStrategyGuides (page does not exist)")
I am relatively new to HOI2, but since no-one else has done the 1939
scenario, I figured I would give it a whirl. I don't claim to be an
expert at the game, and other people may well have different approaches
to playing the U.S. that work better. I should mention that I am a
military historian in my off-hours. My [book on the battle of
Midway](http://www.shatteredswordbook.com/) was published in 2005, and
I'm currently working on a new book on the year 1942. As such, I'm
reasonably conversant with the macroeconomic issues that drove the war.
That knowledge certainly pertains to the development of production
strategies, which is what the U.S. is really all about.

I should also mention that I play using the DAIM (Determined AI Mod)
pak, which makes the Axis and Soviet Union much tougher than the current
HOI2 1.1 AI module. This affects U.S. grand strategy in pretty profound
ways. In particular, this means that the U.S. is almost certain to be
drawn into a large-scale ground war in Asia. Why is this? Because the
DAIM Japanese player is not artificially constrained to only take a
certain percentage of China over before it suspends offensive
activities. Instead, if left to its own devices, the DAIM Japanese will
take over not only all of China, but likely all of India, Afghanistan,
and even portions of the Mideast. Furthermore, while it is relatively
easy to beat the Japanese player, and get it to offer surrender terms to
the U.S., unless you have physically occupied practically all of Japan's
territorial gains in mainland Asia, Japan will retain those ill-gotten
gains even after you've dictated peace terms in Tokyo. From a historical
perspective, that really grinds on my buzz. I want to shape the New
World Order the way *I* want it shaped, thank you very much.
Consequently, I play to not only destroy Japan's military, but also to
physically occupy her colonial holdings. By doing so, I can annex,
puppet, and liberate nations according to *my* wishes, not theirs.

What this inevitably leads to is a reversal of the famous military maxim
of "never getting involved in a land war in Asia." It also means setting
aside the "Germany first" approach that was the cardinal grand-strategic
principle that nominally guided U.S. actions during World War II. As
we'll see, though, it is possible to apply this reversed strategy
successfully, clean up all of Asia by the fall of 1943, and still be in
good shape to turn our attentions to the Germans in 1944.

## Contents

-   [ 1 Strategy for production and research
    ](#Strategy_for_production_and_research)
    -   [ 1.1 Pre-War production and research
        ](#Pre-War_production_and_research)
    -   [ 1.2 Wartime production and research
        ](#Wartime_production_and_research)
-   [ 2 Fighting Japan ](#Fighting_Japan)
    -   [ 2.1 Defend India ](#Defend_India)
    -   [ 2.2 Defend the Philippines ](#Defend_the_Philippines)
    -   [ 2.3 Defend our Pacific holdings
        ](#Defend_our_Pacific_holdings)
    -   [ 2.4 Capture the Japanese home islands ASAP
        ](#Capture_the_Japanese_home_islands_ASAP)
    -   [ 2.5 The *Fabulous* ground war in Asia!
        ](#The_Fabulous_ground_war_in_Asia.21)
-   [ 3 Fighting Germany ](#Fighting_Germany)

##  Strategy for production and research 

The U.S. has hands-down the most formidable economy in the game, and the
U.S. player should use every means available to maximize this advantage.
Your goal is to create the basis for economic and logistical superiority
before the war begins. Once war starts, you'll rely on very large, long
serial runs of good weaponry as the game goes along. Given the vast
scientific prowess of the U.S., it is tempting to research and develop
every type of weapons system available, and then build a little bit of
everything along the way. Historically, though, the U.S. didn't do this,
and you shouldn't either. Instead, the U.S. mated its enormous
productive resources to the manufacture of a reasonably small set of
serviceable hardware, and then churned it out like crazy. This same
principle works well in the game, too. Consequently, the U.S. player
should not only focus on developing military technologies with a
definite strategy in mind, but should also be content with saying that a
given branch of technology is "good enough." You then use the gearing
bonus to crank out large quantities of that particular system. That
approach informs every aspect of my U.S. production strategy,
particularly with regard to naval equipment.

###  Pre-War production and research 

The U.S. enters the 1939 scenario with a relatively anemic IC base, but
is well advanced in several military technologies. The goal here is not
to try rebuilding the military too soon, but instead to lay the basis
for future economic dominance. I don't build a single land or air unit
until the middle of 1941. Not one. Typically, the Japanese will declare
war in the Oct/Nov. 1941 timeframe, so I've got until then to put the
rudiments of a defense in place in the Pacific Basin. Fortunately,
though, I have \*plenty\* of crappy National Guard infantry units
already built. They just need to be upgraded to Inf 39 or 41, augmented
with some stiffening (like Arty brigades), and then distributed across
the Pacific before the balloon goes up. Instead of building units, the
majority of IC should be spent on building factories in my 100%
infrastructure areas (although I will build in 80% areas as well). I
continue building factories well into 1942 (albeit not as many after I'm
at war.) The last of my factories typically gets built in Sept/Oct '42.
I also feverishly work trade deals during peacetime (after all, what
else is there to do?), and try to build up stocks of materials, in
particular Rare Materials and Supplies. Every Rare *I* get is one that
Hitler isn't getting for the Wehrmacht, and that's worth giving up
plenty of Energy, Oil, and supplies for.

The results of playing the trading floor can be dramatic. If you start
the game at the beginning of the "stock" 1941 scenario, the U.S. player
gets typically 1000-2000 of each strategic material in June 1941, and
$100 in the bank. That sucks. But starting in 1939 pays big dividends in
this regard. By enduring the tedium of two years of peace, the U.S.
player can come into June 1941 with resource pools of 500K Energy, 400K
Metal, 38K Rare, 300K Oil, 25K in Supplies, and $10K in the bank. You
will also have a slightly greater IC, *and* a larger population to boot,
and your military will be only slightly smaller (and even that mostly
because I scrap all my Level I destroyers and battleships from the
get-go to save their TC). You do the math. All in all, it's *well* worth
it to spend that extra hour in the game in order to lay down that
foundation.

Naval units, of course, have very long build times, particularly
carriers. Carriers are the naval club we are going to use to stomp Japan
in short order, so we need more of those than just the six flattops we
start the game with. However, until we've researched "Ship Assembly
Line", we don't want to lay any new ships down. So researching that
tech, along with Advanced Destroyer ("Fletcher-class") and Advanced
Carrier ("Essex-class") are absolute priority To-Do's at the beginning
of the 1939 Scenario. These are both classic examples of "good enough"
weapons. Once I've got 'em in 1940, that's the last naval tech I am
likely to research for the rest of the game (which is damned ironic for
a naval historian to admit, but there it is). Don't bother researching
new cruisers or battleships--we don't need those to win. Once the war
starts, the Brits will probably give you the blueprints to the Advanced
Battlecruiser. Politely tell them, "Thanks, gents" and then put the
plans up on the shelf. Remember to dust occasionally. DO research the
better sub, though, as they are somewhat useful. Subs are cheap, and we
need a lot of them to hurt Japanese supply on the mainland.

As soon as "Ship Assembly Line" is completed, I will lay down two groups
of six carriers, typically a month or two apart. I will typically also
lay down a couple *long* serial runs of Fletcher-class destroyers. And
some submarines, too. All of this starts in late 1940/mid-1941,
depending on the lead time of the item. Subs are fast to build: I start
them last, because I want to be building more factories up to the last
minute. Done right, though, you're going to be getting twelve new
carriers in the water by March 1942. That's all you will need. You
already have enough cruisers in the U.S. inventory--you'll never need to
build any new ones. Also start two long serial runs of Transports
sometime in 1941 as well--we're going to be moving a lot of people
around all game long. Transports have the laudable attribute of never
needing to be upgraded, so we know the gearing bonus is always going to
be buying us top-notch cargo ships. I will often build 40+ of the
things. It's all about the Gearing Bonus, baby.

Once the ships are laid down, the U.S. should begin focusing on
researching technologies that increase IC (Advanced Machine Tools), TC
(Deep Supply, etc.), and reduce your troop attrition (Deep Supply,
again). We're going to be doing a lot of fighting in jungles and other
yucky places. Winter in Manchuria is harsh, and we're going to be
exposed to the elements. So we need big, brawny TC modifiers. We also
want to research Early and Advanced computers quite early on, as well as
Agricultural production. We're going to need as much of an edge in
future research projects as we can get, as well as lots of warm bodies
to put into uniform. The longer the war, the more those cumulative
modifiers stack up if I can get those goodies in 1940. That's why God
made Raytheon and Ford and Boeing: to give you nice Industrial techs.

When fighting in Asia, we're going to need Marines (I build 4-6
typically) and lots of Mountain troops (8-10 is good), in addition to
Mech. Inf. (tons) and Armor (also tons). We'll call on Christie and
Winchester to research those for us, and maybe Douglas Aircraft for a
few. Airborne is less important, as is Motorized Infantry (which is
nothing more than a technological means to building better Mech. Inf. in
my book). Upgrading our basic foot infantry techs is likewise important,
as we are going to deploy every single foot infantry unit we have in our
entire Army into the Pacific. Every single one. Heck, I even take the
Cavalry divs I have out there. So start shipping those units out of the
American heartland and East Coast \*now\*, and get 'em into the West
Coast. We need lots of Engineer brigades, because they increase
movement, which is precious in both jungle and mountain settings. "Speed
Kills" (especially when you're angling to grab a strategic piece of
ground *before* the enemy can retreat there, so you can put him in a
pocket and then murder him). So as war approaches, start streaming
Engineers with long serial runs. Do a smaller run of SP Arty for some of
the Arm. and Mech. Bear in mind that we don't want to have too many
unattached brigades sitting waiting to be deployed (they chew a lot of
TC as they wait there in limbo). But in general, we want the ability to
brigade every single unit we send overseas, if possible. I will also
produce Artillery for my Marines and some other Inf units I intend to
use as shock troops or defensive units. Marines aren't going to be
marching anywhere anyway, so the speed penalty of towed Arty won't hurt
us--we use Marines to assault islands and beaches (where the extra
firepower of Arty is useful). After the invasion, we're going to insert
Engineered Infantry to launch followup overland attacks, or Garrisons,
and then pull the Marines back out again to assault the next beach.
Marines don't walk, so they can afford to drag along big, heavy guns.

In terms of aircraft, you need two types--TAC and Escort Fighters. Asia
is big and has few airbases. You need planes with range. You can
research Mustangs and Corsairs later in the war for use in Europe, but
Fighters and Interceptors are less useful for the fighting we're going
to do through 1943. Ditto Strategic Bombers--they've got the range, but
we're going to capture the Japanese productive centers for ourselves in
short order, so who needs to bomb 'em? There will be plenty of time to
build heavy bombers for blasting the Ruhr later. Naval Air is useful for
initial defensive purposes in the Philippines, but you don't need many.
Just a couple will likely suffice in keeping the Japanese out of the
Philippines. We're going to destroy the rest of the Japanese Navy with
our carriers and older battleships. And as with ships, of course, we
aren't going to build *any* aircraft until we've researched Aircraft
Assembly Line--to do otherwise is to simply give away precious ICs that
could be spent on building factories that can give us *more* precious
ICs during the war years. "All in good time, my pretty; all in good
time."

###  Wartime production and research 

Once the balloon goes up, your production will suddenly expand
dramatically, and you can likewise shove domestic spending way down to
focus on making things that go 'BOOM!' On the research front, you will
want to continue doing everything you can to improve your Inf., Marines,
Mountains, Armor, Mech. Inf. TAC, and Escort Fighters. You don't want to
get too aggressive with trying to research 1944 technologies in 1942,
say: the research penalties are too harsh to try and get too far ahead
of the curve. But be diligent in keeping your unit types reasonably up
to date. You don't need Tank Destroyers or Heavy Tanks at this point in
the war--the Japanese don't have any armor to speak of. Ditto Rocket
Arty., Airborne, CAS, Strategic, or Motorized Inf. Better Radar? No:
it's a defensive technology, and we ain't the ones getting bombed. We
want to be focusing our gearing bonuses and tech advances on maximizing
a discrete set of weaponry and doctrine that will help us offensively on
the ground and in the air.

During the war, it's important to be laying down at least some short
runs of various weapons (Marines, Air Transport, maybe a few more DDs,
or perhaps some SP Arty). Why? Because you want to have some elasticity
in your production. There's nothing worse than being geared up with long
serial runs on *everything,* and not having the ability to introduce new
weapons, emergency builds, or whatnot. So think carefully before you
ratchet up your production with a long run of that new kind of armor--if
your production bonks, and a run goes into slowdown, you lose that
precious gearing bonus anyway. A few short runs of this'n'that give us
the flexibility we need. If we goof up, we can always pull the plug on
them without much harm, while still keeping the really important long
runs chugging along with no fear of bonking. I typically keep my early
war production (factories and ships) at about 300IC for the first few
months, but that means watching the Production screen like a hawk, as
you will be right on the rivet. Once you start fighting in China in
earnest, you're going to have to back down unit production to the
250-275IC range, because Reinforcements (and Upgrades) and Supply usage
are guaranteed to go way up. This is \*particularly\* true if you decide
to fight in the winter in Manchuria. My population will typically start
the war at 2100 or so; by the beginning of 1943 it's down to 1300,
especially if I'm pumping out lots of Garrison units.

##  Fighting Japan 

There are four fundamental principles we'll use to fight Japan:

1.  Defend India
2.  Defend the Philippines
3.  Defend our Pacific holdings, and (most important)
4.  Capture the Japanese Home Islands as soon as possible.

Here's how we can do all of those.

###  Defend India 

Playing against DAIM, it is absolutely guaranteed that the Japanese will
have crushed all of China by 1941. As soon as the whistle blows, they go
after Burma and Malaya, and there's not a lot that the Brits can do
about it. You think that division from Bhutan is gonna plug the gap?
Please. So, we need to help. Why do we care about India? Well, really we
don't. But if we don't stop them, the Japanese will take over another
big chunk of land here, and I want to be fighting the Germans in 1944,
not cleaning up Bangalore and the Hindu Kush. Plus, it doesn't take many
divisions (8-10) to stabilize things in this neck of the woods, and
potentially turn Burma into what it historically was--a slaughterhouse
of epic proportions for the Japanese Army.

When war breaks out, we want to be in the Allied alliance as quickly as
possible. I will have been ratcheting my Intervention slider for the
last two years. I won't lie and say I've never Nevilled to get into the
Allies--everyone knows the diplomatic model in HOI2 is still broken with
regards to getting the U.S. into the Alliance. Historically, the Brits
were crying for help anywhere they could get it; I just persuade the
game that such is the case. Ahem. Next, we get British military access,
and then we send an expeditionary force from the U.S. to India with all
the fixins. That means a couple divs of Mtn. troops, some Inf, maybe
even some Mech if we think the Japanese might get loose on the plains of
India. Some TAC and Escort are nice, too. We load 'em up in San Diego.
Now, at this point in the game we only have six carriers (which I put
into a single mondo task force; we'll talk more about that in a bit).
But we \*don't\* drive that convoy through the Central Pacific. It's
crawling with units of the Imperial Navy, and even though I'm confident
that my carriers can handle that, why go looking for trouble? Instead,
we rebase both the carrier formation and the big Transport formation
it's covering from San Diego → Sydney → Perth → Calcutta. Voila. I may
leave a couple of the transports with the troops in Calcutta. I'll
probably do a second run into Calcutta via the same route sometime in
early '42, bringing some more Inf. and maybe some Marines. If possible,
I'd like to take back Rangoon, but that can be tough, as there are an
awful lot of Japanese divisions in Burma in fairly short order.
Stabilizing the line in the mountains near Mandalay is often good
enough--we just don't want the Japanese to make it into the plains of
India. If you \*can\* take Rangoon, though, then try to insert your Mtn
troops into the massif, to start breaking things up a bit up there.
Don't forget that your normal foot Inf, especially if they have Eng
brigades, can fight well here, too. And being up in the mountains is a
buttload better than being down there in the jungle, with snakes and
attrition for company. In late 1942/early '43, our plan will come more
fully to fruition...

###  Defend the Philippines 

Luzon is a very nice place for launching attacks against practically any
portion of the Asian land mass. So we want to keep it. Fortunately, a
couple NavAir units, plus some moderately beefy ground forces in Clark
Field, will practically guarantee that we will make Dugout Doug's vow
that "I Will Return" a historic irrelevancy. By early/mid-1941, I will
probably have finally stoked up a single run of M3 Lee Armored
divisions, meaning that by September 1941 I should have gotten two of
them off the end of the line. Give 'em to Patton and Hodges and ship 'em
out to Clark Field, pronto, along with another pair of Inf + Arty divs.
With that in place, there's no way the Japanese are going to take Luzon
from you. M3's aren't great against the Germans, but with SP Arty
brigades they work just fine against Japanese 41 Inf, thank you very
much. Plus, once those forces are in Luzon, they're nicely positioned
for use in China later on. All of this *must* be pre-positioned before
October '41, of course, because once the war starts the Pacific is just
crawling with Japanese warships. I will also deploy the majority of my
submarines forward to Manila or Clark in fall of '41. A word to the
wise, though: don't bother putting them into the Straits of Tsushima
immediately when war is declared. The Japanese fleet has a tendency to
come through there at the outset, and they will steamroller your poor
subs. I put mine off of [Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") for a month
or two, and \*then\* move them up to the Japanese coastlines a little
bit later.

###  Defend our Pacific holdings 

Guam, in particular, must be held at all costs. You'll see why in a bit.
To do so, we put an Inf + Arty early on (so they can dig in) on Hawaii,
Midway, Wake, and Guam. That should do the trick.

###  Capture the Japanese home islands ASAP 

This is why we didn't build any new battleships or cruisers: we don't
have any intention of getting caught in painful attritional night
surface battles in stinking hellholes like the Solomons. That's for
chumps. We want Tokyo, and we want it NOW. Fortunately for us, we're
getting twelve shiny new Essex-class carriers by March '42. Mmmmmm,
yummmy. And as soon as they hit the water, I group them into two more
groups of six carriers apiece, with cruisers and DDs. Why do I use
carriers en masse? Because the AI currently *doesn't,* and six of my
flight decks will mop pretty much whatever is out there that I run into.
By March '42, my First Carrier Striking Force is probably done escorting
the second troop convoy to Calcutta. We move him back to San Diego, and
now we have 3 CV task forces with 18 flight decks, one or two groups of
older battleships (for shore bombardment and indirect screening of our
Transport group(s)), and one or two big Transport groups loaded up with
a couple Mtn., maybe a couple Marines + Arty, some Inf. + Arty, some
Mech, and some Armor. We rebase San Diego → Pearl Harbour → Guam. As
long as we stick together, ain't nobody gonna be able to mess with 50-70
flottilas, including 18 carriers. From Guam (tee hee) we can amphib
assault Osaka. How convenient. Do so, with shore bombardment, carrier
strikes on airfields, and the whole shebang. Crunch. Once you've taken
Osaka, you rebase your warships there. Your Mtn assault Nagoya, while
the Arm and Mech drive on Shikoku and Hiroshima. You reload the Marines
and Inf, and hit Tokyo a couple days later, then drive north into Sendai
and Akita--mobile forces in the east, Mtn up the spine on the west. The
Japanese Home Islands should be taken out completely by April/May '42.

After that, you're likely to get Peace offers from Japan in fairly short
order. I turn them down, because if they capitulate at this point, the
Japanese still will end up with all of China, etc. etc. The war ain't
over til *I* say it's over, Tojo, and I'm making the world safe for
democracy, damnit. Which brings us to...

###    The *Fabulous* ground war in Asia! 

Once the Japanese Home Islands are stomped, it's time for the real fun
to begin. We hit Korea right away with a couple Mtn pulled outta Japan,
some Mech and Armor, and whatnot. You crush the Japanese in Busan, then
drive up the east side of the peninsula. You trap the remainder of their
forces in Pyonyang or Seoul and annihilate them. You then want to
capture the line of mountains from Hyesan (for the airfield) to Dalian
(for the port) by the time the snow flies, which shouldn't be hard if
you have lots of engineers. From there I will often just leave a line of
4-6 divisions defending in those mountains to suffer through the winter
(Manchurian winters are way harsh), and perhaps a corps of Infantry in
Busan to recapture any areas in Korea that happen to get taken by
Japanese amphib assault (the Imperial Navy, after all, is still drifting
around, and they love to take places like Seoul and Okinawa back from us
once we've pulled our troops out.) Keeping just token forces in Korea
(and Japan too, for that matter) will keep our attrition down.

At sea, you should keep at least one carrier task force covering your
transport groups for the time being. You've got three CV groups, so you
can move things around and cover the amphibs pretty flexibly. Your
battleships will also help out in that regard. It's guaranteed that the
Imperial Navy will show up in dribs and drabs and take swipes at you for
several months. But if you retain the advantage of mass, you'll crush
them every time they show up. However, putting a few cruisers and DDs
into your transport groups is always a good idea, just in case you have
to tangle with smaller combatants. If your transports ever come under
the gun, run for it and call for the carriers. They should be right
there with you in any case.

By summer of 1942, we should now be in a position to put significant
mechanized forces into China. The Chinese coastline is long, and you
should have no problem putting Marines ashore and capturing a major port
somewhere. Once you do, you just pour Arm. and Mech. in there. China
isn't exactly great tank country, but it's not awful, either. With
enough Engineer brigades we can move along pretty well. The goal is to
punch armored groups into the heartland, then turn and trap pockets of
Japanese troops against the coastline, where they will be annihilated.
More important, though, we want to push an armored column into the
northwest and get Mtn. troops into the mountains east of Burma/Thailand
as rapidly as possible. Kangding is the plug that is going to keep the
Japanese forces (and there's a lot of them, typically) bottled up in the
killing zone in upper Burma. It's a nice big north/south province that
plugs up a lot of other provinces leading out of the mountains. With a
couple dug-in Mtn. divs across their escape route, and our mechanized
forces lurking in the hills below in Kunming and Wenshan, they ain't
going anywhere. They can't possibly take on our Armor on the flat. This
means we can cut them off from whatever supply they have left, feed them
to the jungle attrition factory for a few months, and then annihilate
them in '43. It's a classic "let the jungle kill 'em" strategy *a la*
MacArthur in New Guinea.

At the same time, I will put a picket line of mechanized troops across
my northern flank, typically trailing west from Shanghai towards
Mongolia. That pretty much represents the southernmost snow line, and
saves us from undue attrition during the winter. Now, I have been known
to fight in Manchuria in the winter (if I don't care about casualties),
but it can be avoided if you're not feeling hardcore. And it will really
ratchet up your supply and reinforcement requirements. So think
carefully before doing this--the first time I went up there, I got
caught with large mechanized forces on the ground, and I hadn't
researched my logistics technologies yet. The attrition was just
unbelievable. So learn from my mistakes, bruthah.

The winter of '42 is also a peachy time to split off 3-4 Marine
divisions into a like number of small assault transport groups, and send
them around the Pacific Basin cleaning up all of Japan's territorial
holdings out in the Nanyo. Hey, we want to do A-Bomb tests out here
after the war, right? So we need to take back that real-estate. Take a
battleship division with you for kicks, as you will occasionally run
into Japanese subs and smaller combatants lurking in places like Truk.
Single-division assaults will clean up most of these garrisons;
occasionally two divisions will be required for the larger places that
have actual infantry divisions occcupying them (Truk and Kwajalein being
typical examples). Don't forget to send one or two of the boys *way* up
north to nab Etorofu and the Kuriles. We want it all. " *Everything* is
going according to my Master Plan..."

Come spring of '43, we move a horde of mechanized troops out of Dalian,
and clean out the rest of Manchuria. It's forest and hills, mostly, so
the going is slow, but it can be done by the summer of '43, with the
holdouts up near Mongolia probably the last to go down. There shouldn't
be much left of the Japanese units by then, and they won't be getting
resupplied.

Concurrently, the same thing (albeit on a much larger scale), is
happening to them in Siam, Indochina, and Burma. You launch multiple
amphib assaults along the coasts, push the Japanese into the jungle,
surround them, and annihilate them. It should all be over by the end of
the summer of '43. Now you can annex, puppetize, and liberate to your
heart's content. The Brits will have gotten Malaya and Burma back
(largely thanks to you), but you get everything else. Bwah ha ha!

##  Fighting Germany 

Once the mess in Asia is cleaned up, it's time for Germany. During the
time we were fighting in China, I will have been feeding very small
numbers of ground troops (one or two Arm/Mech corps) into the UK, just
to make sure that nothing funny happens (like the Germans invading
Ireland)(which happens more often than you might think). Beginning in
late 1943 it's time to start turning on the Strategic Air production (if
you want), or simply cranking out more ground troops, TAC, and fighters
of various ilk. Now, the Germans obviously have better aircraft than the
Japanese, so it behooves you to begin building up airpower beforehand,
regaining their organization after flying them in from Dalian (or
whereever), and then starting to apply your airpower with a will. If you
want to go to Strategic Bombing, now's the time to start in earnest. My
experience has been that unlesss you've developed your air doctrines
(particularly those pertaining to fighters) the Germans will beat the
snot out of your airgroups with their own highly developed interceptors
and whatnot. So, much more so than in Asia, it behooves you to have lots
of aircraft, and use them *en masse* .

During the interim in 1943, I will have been researching some additional
technologies, such as better Artillery and Tank Destroyers, as both of
these will be more useful in Europe than they were in Asia. Having
sophisticated Artillery is axiomatically a "Good Thing(tm)." Plus, I do
like to attach SP Arty to some of my shock mechanized groups, and Better
Arty = Better SP Arty. I may also indulge in researching better Fighter
technologies, if I feel like I have nothing better to do. With good
blueprint swapping from the UK at the beginning of the war, I can charge
through most of the essential technologies by late '42, and '43 can be
spent doing things that weren't as crucial in the beginning of the
conflict, like moving the A-Bomb along, or whatever.

Waging the ground war in Europe, I think, is potentially a lot easier
than driving around in the swamps of Manchuria. Europe's a much smaller
place, for one thing, and the terrain is generally more conducive to
mechanized combat as well--not so many mountains. If that sounds almost
anti-climactic, well, it sort of is. By now, you've got a great Marine
Corps and a large mechanized military--all you need to do is bring them
back from Asia and get them ready to go.

But there's the rub! Moving all those divisions back from China and
putting them in place to assault Festung Europe is going to take most of
the winter of '43/'44 to accomplish. THIS is where building all those
scads of Transports earlier in the war pays off. I want to be able to
move literally dozens of divisions at at time, because it's a *long* way
to get those troops to the UK (or whereever) we're going to stage from.
It's the transit time that will kill you, so you don't want to make too
many trips. It's perfectly viable to ship your stuff west to east, i.e.
China → San Diego → Boston → UK, rather than China → India → Suez →
Gibralter → UK (or worse, around the Cape of Good Hope and Africa). The
Mediterranean may not necessarily be a friendly place to travel, so
going back across the Pacific spares you from potential hassles. After
all, the Pacific's *your* lake now. Alternately, you can just dump
people in San Diego and have them Strategically redeployed to the east
coast of the States, meaning you can focus your Transports on making
shorter runs back and forth across the Pacific, and then moving \*all\*
of them to the East Coast just once. Thereupon, you can start picking up
the road-trippin' Strategic Redeployment boys from the West Coast as
they show up, and then take them over to Jolly Olde Englande.

Jolly Olde Englande has the notable virtue of having lots of dark beer
and also being close to Hitler's main productive centers. This is why I
prefer using J.O.E. as a staging area in preference to attacking through
southern France or Italy. Of course, that's also in keeping with a
classic vein of American military thought that says that the overall
goal of warfare is to place the main force of your military in contact
with the enemy and destroy him. Peripheral operations are to be avoided.
That's not to say that you can't make a southern or indirect approach
work. But I'm a traditionalist in my love of doing up my own Operation
Overlord.

Anyway, after six months of buildup or so, right about when it
historically actually occurred (June 1944), it's time to smash into
France. You'll have all the Marines you need to storm ashore somewhere,
and can probably do it across 2-3 provinces simultaneously. After that,
you just pour your troops in and try to develop some deep attacks into
France and the Low Countries, using the same techniques to turn and pin
German formations against the sea, and wipe them out. Trapping lots of
troops in Brest and Denmark is classic for this sort of thing.

Hopefully, though, the Germans will already have been caught in the
Russian sausage grinder for a few years prior, and will have the bulk of
their forces located elsewhere when you finally decide to pay your
long-awaited visit on the ground. Still, you will have to re-orient your
strategy (pardon the pun) into a more large-scale format. Single Mech
Inf divisions are no longer capable of holding entire provinces against
enemy infantry opposition like they were in China--they will be kicked
to the curb by the Wehrmacht. So you need to start thinking in terms of
Corps-level combat, and pushing large mechanized Armies around. In all,
though, it shouldn't be too difficult to eviscerate Germany's productive
areas in fairly short order. Game over.

Then all you have to worry about is whether you want to take on the
Russians... if so, you better have left your Inf in Manchuria!
