---
title: "Users_guide_to_versions_1.1,_1.2_and_1.3_consolidated"
---

[Template:HoI2
v1.3](/index.php?title=Template:HoI2_v1.3&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:HoI2 v1.3 (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.1_Update)
    -   [ 1.1 Land Combat ](#Land_Combat)
    -   [ 1.2 Convoys and submarines ](#Convoys_and_submarines)
    -   [ 1.3 Air combat ](#Air_combat)
    -   [ 1.4 Diplomacy and political considerations
        ](#Diplomacy_and_political_considerations)
    -   [ 1.5 Production and research ](#Production_and_research)
-   [ 2 A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.2_Update)
-   [ 3 A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.3_Update)

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update 

Anyone who has taken the trouble to read through the enormous “readme”
that comes with this update may well come away wondering what it’s all
about. As one player’s contribution to highlighting the more significant
changes among this thicket, here is a user’s guide to the most
significant changes you can expect to see in-game from it.

###  Land Combat 

A great deal of attention has been paid to slowing land combat down and
making it more difficult. “ [Fortress
Buster](/index.php?title=Fortress_Buster&action=edit&redlink=1 "Fortress Buster (page does not exist)")
” generals are now less powerful, which translates into making
fortresses more effective. Attacking in poor weather will now prove more
harmful for the attacker, and both sides will find attacking (or
counterattacking) at night more difficult. The bonus awarded to dug-in
defenders now has a maximum of 20%, doubling the old bonus of 10%. A
number of factors affecting land combat have been exported to the
misc.txt file, where they can be modified according to your priorities.
In particular, the effect of experience on combat have been halved in
this patch and exported to misc.txt, where it can be adjusted further.
Note too that the delay for units to recover from combat has been
extended to 24 hours and also exported for further tweaking. A lot of
comment in the general forum has already focused on the centrality of
this factor in gameplay, so its availability for adjustment is
particularly noteworthy. Another change, which Johan signaled would be
forthcoming after discussion about it in the general forum, was to make
it possible to arrange for units from more than one province to arrive
at their destination simultaneously. So now, when you give the order to
a unit to attack, you will see a button on the pop-up allowing you to
designate simultaneous arrival. Note, however, that ordering the units
to arrive simultaneously doesn't actually make them all pop into place
at the same moment. But it will get them there closer together.

###  Convoys and submarines 

If I had to pick the most significant group of changes in the entire
update, these would be my choice. The intent of these changes has been
three-fold: 1) To make submarine attacks on convoys less lethal, both by
reducing the number of attacks the subs can make and by increasing the
convoys’ protection by escorts. 2) To make convoying less susceptible to
sub attacks by directing the convoy a.i. to choose sea zones that are
not currently being attacked by submarines. Of course, this places a
greater burden on a nation’s convoy pool, but the advantage for convoy
survivability should be noticeable. 3) To make submarines less
vulnerable to detection and destruction by aircraft carriers or
sub-hunting surface ships. The overall effect, therefore, should be to
keep submarines at sea for longer periods without being destroyed and to
reduce their effect on convoys. You should note that the presence of the
submarines will also have an effect on the efficiency of your trade
agreements. More subs at sea translates into lower trade efficiency,
which is handled separately from convoys.

###  Air combat 

In an attempt to avoid the creation of huge stacks of air units locked
in seemingly eternal combat, a limit of 4 units has been placed on the
size of any one single air stack. The command limits of commanders have
been defined as 2 units for a major general, 4 for a lt. general, 8 for
an air general and 16 for an air marshal. In principle, this means an
air marshal still could assemble and command a 16-unit “stack” (4 x
4-unit stacks) for a major “Battle of Britain,” but given the randomness
built into the air mission routine this should not be too frequent.
Noteworthy too here is the attempt to better coordinate the air and
naval portions of the game. The a.i. will provide better air cover for
naval units and the effectiveness of naval bombers has been raised
slightly.

###  Diplomacy and political considerations 

One of the most important changes in this part of the game has been made
with respect to guarantees of independence. When countries are
a.i.-controlled, those guarantees should now be honored more often,
making it more difficult for would-be world conquerors to go rampaging
around without consequences. Some effort has been paid to keeping an
a.i.-controlled US from entering the game too early. Isolationist
countries (read “USA”) will no longer provide guarantees of independence
or form alliances. The effects of breaking non-aggression pacts are now
more severe in terms of a country’s belligerence rating, which again
should slow down WC (World Conquest). One of the most important changes
is a small one: dissent now affects your IC total, just as it did in
HOI. Dissent had lost much of its meaning in this game – this change
makes it something you once again have to pay attention to. It now
should be easier to create puppets from your conquered territories, a
must for countries hoping to reduce their belligerence levels. And on
the subject of puppets, veterans of HOI will want to know that now you
can attack from a puppet's territory, and, when a province is taken, the
province falls to the puppet master, not the puppet.

###  Production and research 

A number of miscellaneous changes have been made in the production of
particular units. Air transports are now less expensive, as are rockets
and atomic bombs. When you deploy province installations such as radar
sites or air bases, what you are “deploying” is only an increased
capacity for those installations. Only over time will they grow to be
the size specified. The effects of tech advances on the rate of airbase
construction has been reduced, which should slow a player’s ability to
continually hop forward with new bases (again, slowing WC). One of the
more interesting and easily overlooked changes has been the placement of
an upgrade and reinforcement cap (a limit on the sliders, actually) on
a.i.-controlled countries. The aim here has been to get the a.i. to
produce a more varied military force. These caps have been exported to
misc.txt for further tweaking. A considerable number of tech blocks
(i.e., instructions not to research given techs) have been inserted for
a.i.-controlled countries.

There you have it. Along with many, many other miscellaneous changes, I
hope this provides a satisfactory overview of the 1.1 update. And by the
way -- I have been playing with the beta version of this update as Japan
on hard/aggressive and having one hell of a hard time. I hope you will
have similar fun!

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update 

There are three main elements to this patch. The first is a
comprehensive upgrading of the AI. Now that the humans have learnt how
to play HOI 2 well, the AI has been given the benefit of their
understanding.

The second element is a large number of bug fixes and tweaks for
gameplay, balance and historicity. Some important examples are:

-   The Soviet Union has a combat penalty in the early years to reflect
    the chaos, incompetence and paranoia of the purge era. It will find
    it more difficult to bully its neighbours and so the debacle of the
    Winter War against Finland may be reproduced. It only becomes more
    effective after the Great Patriotic War is declared and the country
    is fighting for survival.

&nbsp;

-   You can no longer retreat immediately from naval combat. This means
    that you have to take your lumps before you can run away and so weak
    naval forces should be more cautious.

&nbsp;

-   Fuel-consuming units like armoured divisions no longer suffer from
    such severe movement penalties in badlands like the desert. They
    will now outpace infantry in such terrain and so can more
    effectively be used for deep thrusts, flanking moves and
    encirclements. To help fuel these units, the effectiveness of the
    oil conversion technologies has been improved so that the output of
    converted oil increases as the technology is developed.

&nbsp;

-   The technology teams have been reviewed and rebalanced. You will
    need to check the skills of your favourite teams to see if they have
    changed and maybe look for new choices for your research. Many
    technologies have an especially difficult prototype stage and the
    importance of this can now be seen more clearly.

&nbsp;

-   The countries which have large peacetime penalties like the USA now
    get corresponding decreases in their raw material output too. This
    means that the balance between output and consumption of raw
    materials is more closely matched at a global level and so you will
    need to trade harder in the early years to build up large
    stockpiles.

The third element of the patch is the new features. There are interface
improvements like the display of the techs that your allies are
researching. There are new modding features like the improved support
for the custom sprites that we'd all like to see. And there are new
scenarios including a complete new campaign starting in 1938. This
starts just before the Munich crisis - one year before the historical
outbreak of the war between the Allies and Germany over Poland. This is
intended to get you into the action sooner while still giving you some
time to prepare for it. Germany has yet to develop its full strength but
the Allies are still not ready for war and the Soviets are wracked by
the purges. Who will make the first move ... ?

  

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update 

There are basically three elements to this patch. First of all, we've
worked on eliminated the reminaing bugs and complaints, as well as
removing exploits. Secondly, we've finetuned and balanced the game, to
provide a richer experience. Thirdly, we've severly improved the AI to
provide more challeging and rewarding gameplay.

Features include the following

-   The Front AI has been vastly improved. Expect to see much more of a
    challenge in attacking or defending. You want to make sure that your
    units org is high and use the principles of combined arms.

&nbsp;

-   The production AI will now do a better job of fielding the latest
    technology units.

&nbsp;

-   The Production Queue AI has been revamped for many countries to
    produce a better mix of units. In particular national asset units
    like transport planes and paratroopers are now built in moderation.

&nbsp;

-   The AI now knows better how to concentrate and use its Naval Power
    creating more effective Task Forces.

&nbsp;

-   Polished MP game experience by getting rid of some annoying MP-only
    bugs, like the well known mismatch on serial production of province
    developments.

&nbsp;

-   Revamped the cost and supply/oil usage of nearly every brigade to
    make them more worthwhile to build. You'll find that it's a good
    sport to build a mixed army more, instead of just plain infantry
    armies.

&nbsp;

-   A bunch of new events were included as a feature: Vichy has a
    complete new event chain, there's surrender events for China & Japan
    towards eachother, Bulgaria can claim Constanta,... and more.

&nbsp;

-   Beware of partisans now! They will be there. The partisans
    parameters were reworked and you'll actively have to suppress them
    in a number of areas.

&nbsp;

-   King Winter is back in town and carries a big stick! Think twice
    before fighting long fights and carrying through big offensives in
    the heart of winter. You'll find your troops in a bit more trouble
    if you do, especially those nifty panzers, cool trucks and
    halftracks with their frozen engines.

&nbsp;

-   Close Air Support and Tactical Bombing can now cause alot more
    mayhem amongst the enemy units. Use your bombers wisely though.
    They'll be more effective in a number of roles, ranging from bombing
    stationary units in defence to retreating units and units in a
    fight.
[Template:HoI2
v1.3](/index.php?title=Template:HoI2_v1.3&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:HoI2 v1.3 (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.1_Update)
    -   [ 1.1 Land Combat ](#Land_Combat)
    -   [ 1.2 Convoys and submarines ](#Convoys_and_submarines)
    -   [ 1.3 Air combat ](#Air_combat)
    -   [ 1.4 Diplomacy and political considerations
        ](#Diplomacy_and_political_considerations)
    -   [ 1.5 Production and research ](#Production_and_research)
-   [ 2 A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.2_Update)
-   [ 3 A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.3_Update)

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update 

Anyone who has taken the trouble to read through the enormous “readme”
that comes with this update may well come away wondering what it’s all
about. As one player’s contribution to highlighting the more significant
changes among this thicket, here is a user’s guide to the most
significant changes you can expect to see in-game from it.

###  Land Combat 

A great deal of attention has been paid to slowing land combat down and
making it more difficult. “ [Fortress
Buster](/index.php?title=Fortress_Buster&action=edit&redlink=1 "Fortress Buster (page does not exist)")
” generals are now less powerful, which translates into making
fortresses more effective. Attacking in poor weather will now prove more
harmful for the attacker, and both sides will find attacking (or
counterattacking) at night more difficult. The bonus awarded to dug-in
defenders now has a maximum of 20%, doubling the old bonus of 10%. A
number of factors affecting land combat have been exported to the
misc.txt file, where they can be modified according to your priorities.
In particular, the effect of experience on combat have been halved in
this patch and exported to misc.txt, where it can be adjusted further.
Note too that the delay for units to recover from combat has been
extended to 24 hours and also exported for further tweaking. A lot of
comment in the general forum has already focused on the centrality of
this factor in gameplay, so its availability for adjustment is
particularly noteworthy. Another change, which Johan signaled would be
forthcoming after discussion about it in the general forum, was to make
it possible to arrange for units from more than one province to arrive
at their destination simultaneously. So now, when you give the order to
a unit to attack, you will see a button on the pop-up allowing you to
designate simultaneous arrival. Note, however, that ordering the units
to arrive simultaneously doesn't actually make them all pop into place
at the same moment. But it will get them there closer together.

###  Convoys and submarines 

If I had to pick the most significant group of changes in the entire
update, these would be my choice. The intent of these changes has been
three-fold: 1) To make submarine attacks on convoys less lethal, both by
reducing the number of attacks the subs can make and by increasing the
convoys’ protection by escorts. 2) To make convoying less susceptible to
sub attacks by directing the convoy a.i. to choose sea zones that are
not currently being attacked by submarines. Of course, this places a
greater burden on a nation’s convoy pool, but the advantage for convoy
survivability should be noticeable. 3) To make submarines less
vulnerable to detection and destruction by aircraft carriers or
sub-hunting surface ships. The overall effect, therefore, should be to
keep submarines at sea for longer periods without being destroyed and to
reduce their effect on convoys. You should note that the presence of the
submarines will also have an effect on the efficiency of your trade
agreements. More subs at sea translates into lower trade efficiency,
which is handled separately from convoys.

###  Air combat 

In an attempt to avoid the creation of huge stacks of air units locked
in seemingly eternal combat, a limit of 4 units has been placed on the
size of any one single air stack. The command limits of commanders have
been defined as 2 units for a major general, 4 for a lt. general, 8 for
an air general and 16 for an air marshal. In principle, this means an
air marshal still could assemble and command a 16-unit “stack” (4 x
4-unit stacks) for a major “Battle of Britain,” but given the randomness
built into the air mission routine this should not be too frequent.
Noteworthy too here is the attempt to better coordinate the air and
naval portions of the game. The a.i. will provide better air cover for
naval units and the effectiveness of naval bombers has been raised
slightly.

###  Diplomacy and political considerations 

One of the most important changes in this part of the game has been made
with respect to guarantees of independence. When countries are
a.i.-controlled, those guarantees should now be honored more often,
making it more difficult for would-be world conquerors to go rampaging
around without consequences. Some effort has been paid to keeping an
a.i.-controlled US from entering the game too early. Isolationist
countries (read “USA”) will no longer provide guarantees of independence
or form alliances. The effects of breaking non-aggression pacts are now
more severe in terms of a country’s belligerence rating, which again
should slow down WC (World Conquest). One of the most important changes
is a small one: dissent now affects your IC total, just as it did in
HOI. Dissent had lost much of its meaning in this game – this change
makes it something you once again have to pay attention to. It now
should be easier to create puppets from your conquered territories, a
must for countries hoping to reduce their belligerence levels. And on
the subject of puppets, veterans of HOI will want to know that now you
can attack from a puppet's territory, and, when a province is taken, the
province falls to the puppet master, not the puppet.

###  Production and research 

A number of miscellaneous changes have been made in the production of
particular units. Air transports are now less expensive, as are rockets
and atomic bombs. When you deploy province installations such as radar
sites or air bases, what you are “deploying” is only an increased
capacity for those installations. Only over time will they grow to be
the size specified. The effects of tech advances on the rate of airbase
construction has been reduced, which should slow a player’s ability to
continually hop forward with new bases (again, slowing WC). One of the
more interesting and easily overlooked changes has been the placement of
an upgrade and reinforcement cap (a limit on the sliders, actually) on
a.i.-controlled countries. The aim here has been to get the a.i. to
produce a more varied military force. These caps have been exported to
misc.txt for further tweaking. A considerable number of tech blocks
(i.e., instructions not to research given techs) have been inserted for
a.i.-controlled countries.

There you have it. Along with many, many other miscellaneous changes, I
hope this provides a satisfactory overview of the 1.1 update. And by the
way -- I have been playing with the beta version of this update as Japan
on hard/aggressive and having one hell of a hard time. I hope you will
have similar fun!

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update 

There are three main elements to this patch. The first is a
comprehensive upgrading of the AI. Now that the humans have learnt how
to play HOI 2 well, the AI has been given the benefit of their
understanding.

The second element is a large number of bug fixes and tweaks for
gameplay, balance and historicity. Some important examples are:

-   The Soviet Union has a combat penalty in the early years to reflect
    the chaos, incompetence and paranoia of the purge era. It will find
    it more difficult to bully its neighbours and so the debacle of the
    Winter War against Finland may be reproduced. It only becomes more
    effective after the Great Patriotic War is declared and the country
    is fighting for survival.

&nbsp;

-   You can no longer retreat immediately from naval combat. This means
    that you have to take your lumps before you can run away and so weak
    naval forces should be more cautious.

&nbsp;

-   Fuel-consuming units like armoured divisions no longer suffer from
    such severe movement penalties in badlands like the desert. They
    will now outpace infantry in such terrain and so can more
    effectively be used for deep thrusts, flanking moves and
    encirclements. To help fuel these units, the effectiveness of the
    oil conversion technologies has been improved so that the output of
    converted oil increases as the technology is developed.

&nbsp;

-   The technology teams have been reviewed and rebalanced. You will
    need to check the skills of your favourite teams to see if they have
    changed and maybe look for new choices for your research. Many
    technologies have an especially difficult prototype stage and the
    importance of this can now be seen more clearly.

&nbsp;

-   The countries which have large peacetime penalties like the USA now
    get corresponding decreases in their raw material output too. This
    means that the balance between output and consumption of raw
    materials is more closely matched at a global level and so you will
    need to trade harder in the early years to build up large
    stockpiles.

The third element of the patch is the new features. There are interface
improvements like the display of the techs that your allies are
researching. There are new modding features like the improved support
for the custom sprites that we'd all like to see. And there are new
scenarios including a complete new campaign starting in 1938. This
starts just before the Munich crisis - one year before the historical
outbreak of the war between the Allies and Germany over Poland. This is
intended to get you into the action sooner while still giving you some
time to prepare for it. Germany has yet to develop its full strength but
the Allies are still not ready for war and the Soviets are wracked by
the purges. Who will make the first move ... ?

  

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update 

There are basically three elements to this patch. First of all, we've
worked on eliminated the reminaing bugs and complaints, as well as
removing exploits. Secondly, we've finetuned and balanced the game, to
provide a richer experience. Thirdly, we've severly improved the AI to
provide more challeging and rewarding gameplay.

Features include the following

-   The Front AI has been vastly improved. Expect to see much more of a
    challenge in attacking or defending. You want to make sure that your
    units org is high and use the principles of combined arms.

&nbsp;

-   The production AI will now do a better job of fielding the latest
    technology units.

&nbsp;

-   The Production Queue AI has been revamped for many countries to
    produce a better mix of units. In particular national asset units
    like transport planes and paratroopers are now built in moderation.

&nbsp;

-   The AI now knows better how to concentrate and use its Naval Power
    creating more effective Task Forces.

&nbsp;

-   Polished MP game experience by getting rid of some annoying MP-only
    bugs, like the well known mismatch on serial production of province
    developments.

&nbsp;

-   Revamped the cost and supply/oil usage of nearly every brigade to
    make them more worthwhile to build. You'll find that it's a good
    sport to build a mixed army more, instead of just plain infantry
    armies.

&nbsp;

-   A bunch of new events were included as a feature: Vichy has a
    complete new event chain, there's surrender events for China & Japan
    towards eachother, Bulgaria can claim Constanta,... and more.

&nbsp;

-   Beware of partisans now! They will be there. The partisans
    parameters were reworked and you'll actively have to suppress them
    in a number of areas.

&nbsp;

-   King Winter is back in town and carries a big stick! Think twice
    before fighting long fights and carrying through big offensives in
    the heart of winter. You'll find your troops in a bit more trouble
    if you do, especially those nifty panzers, cool trucks and
    halftracks with their frozen engines.

&nbsp;

-   Close Air Support and Tactical Bombing can now cause alot more
    mayhem amongst the enemy units. Use your bombers wisely though.
    They'll be more effective in a number of roles, ranging from bombing
    stationary units in defence to retreating units and units in a
    fight.
[Template:HoI2
v1.3](/index.php?title=Template:HoI2_v1.3&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:HoI2 v1.3 (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.1_Update)
    -   [ 1.1 Land Combat ](#Land_Combat)
    -   [ 1.2 Convoys and submarines ](#Convoys_and_submarines)
    -   [ 1.3 Air combat ](#Air_combat)
    -   [ 1.4 Diplomacy and political considerations
        ](#Diplomacy_and_political_considerations)
    -   [ 1.5 Production and research ](#Production_and_research)
-   [ 2 A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.2_Update)
-   [ 3 A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.3_Update)

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update 

Anyone who has taken the trouble to read through the enormous “readme”
that comes with this update may well come away wondering what it’s all
about. As one player’s contribution to highlighting the more significant
changes among this thicket, here is a user’s guide to the most
significant changes you can expect to see in-game from it.

###  Land Combat 

A great deal of attention has been paid to slowing land combat down and
making it more difficult. “ [Fortress
Buster](/index.php?title=Fortress_Buster&action=edit&redlink=1 "Fortress Buster (page does not exist)")
” generals are now less powerful, which translates into making
fortresses more effective. Attacking in poor weather will now prove more
harmful for the attacker, and both sides will find attacking (or
counterattacking) at night more difficult. The bonus awarded to dug-in
defenders now has a maximum of 20%, doubling the old bonus of 10%. A
number of factors affecting land combat have been exported to the
misc.txt file, where they can be modified according to your priorities.
In particular, the effect of experience on combat have been halved in
this patch and exported to misc.txt, where it can be adjusted further.
Note too that the delay for units to recover from combat has been
extended to 24 hours and also exported for further tweaking. A lot of
comment in the general forum has already focused on the centrality of
this factor in gameplay, so its availability for adjustment is
particularly noteworthy. Another change, which Johan signaled would be
forthcoming after discussion about it in the general forum, was to make
it possible to arrange for units from more than one province to arrive
at their destination simultaneously. So now, when you give the order to
a unit to attack, you will see a button on the pop-up allowing you to
designate simultaneous arrival. Note, however, that ordering the units
to arrive simultaneously doesn't actually make them all pop into place
at the same moment. But it will get them there closer together.

###  Convoys and submarines 

If I had to pick the most significant group of changes in the entire
update, these would be my choice. The intent of these changes has been
three-fold: 1) To make submarine attacks on convoys less lethal, both by
reducing the number of attacks the subs can make and by increasing the
convoys’ protection by escorts. 2) To make convoying less susceptible to
sub attacks by directing the convoy a.i. to choose sea zones that are
not currently being attacked by submarines. Of course, this places a
greater burden on a nation’s convoy pool, but the advantage for convoy
survivability should be noticeable. 3) To make submarines less
vulnerable to detection and destruction by aircraft carriers or
sub-hunting surface ships. The overall effect, therefore, should be to
keep submarines at sea for longer periods without being destroyed and to
reduce their effect on convoys. You should note that the presence of the
submarines will also have an effect on the efficiency of your trade
agreements. More subs at sea translates into lower trade efficiency,
which is handled separately from convoys.

###  Air combat 

In an attempt to avoid the creation of huge stacks of air units locked
in seemingly eternal combat, a limit of 4 units has been placed on the
size of any one single air stack. The command limits of commanders have
been defined as 2 units for a major general, 4 for a lt. general, 8 for
an air general and 16 for an air marshal. In principle, this means an
air marshal still could assemble and command a 16-unit “stack” (4 x
4-unit stacks) for a major “Battle of Britain,” but given the randomness
built into the air mission routine this should not be too frequent.
Noteworthy too here is the attempt to better coordinate the air and
naval portions of the game. The a.i. will provide better air cover for
naval units and the effectiveness of naval bombers has been raised
slightly.

###  Diplomacy and political considerations 

One of the most important changes in this part of the game has been made
with respect to guarantees of independence. When countries are
a.i.-controlled, those guarantees should now be honored more often,
making it more difficult for would-be world conquerors to go rampaging
around without consequences. Some effort has been paid to keeping an
a.i.-controlled US from entering the game too early. Isolationist
countries (read “USA”) will no longer provide guarantees of independence
or form alliances. The effects of breaking non-aggression pacts are now
more severe in terms of a country’s belligerence rating, which again
should slow down WC (World Conquest). One of the most important changes
is a small one: dissent now affects your IC total, just as it did in
HOI. Dissent had lost much of its meaning in this game – this change
makes it something you once again have to pay attention to. It now
should be easier to create puppets from your conquered territories, a
must for countries hoping to reduce their belligerence levels. And on
the subject of puppets, veterans of HOI will want to know that now you
can attack from a puppet's territory, and, when a province is taken, the
province falls to the puppet master, not the puppet.

###  Production and research 

A number of miscellaneous changes have been made in the production of
particular units. Air transports are now less expensive, as are rockets
and atomic bombs. When you deploy province installations such as radar
sites or air bases, what you are “deploying” is only an increased
capacity for those installations. Only over time will they grow to be
the size specified. The effects of tech advances on the rate of airbase
construction has been reduced, which should slow a player’s ability to
continually hop forward with new bases (again, slowing WC). One of the
more interesting and easily overlooked changes has been the placement of
an upgrade and reinforcement cap (a limit on the sliders, actually) on
a.i.-controlled countries. The aim here has been to get the a.i. to
produce a more varied military force. These caps have been exported to
misc.txt for further tweaking. A considerable number of tech blocks
(i.e., instructions not to research given techs) have been inserted for
a.i.-controlled countries.

There you have it. Along with many, many other miscellaneous changes, I
hope this provides a satisfactory overview of the 1.1 update. And by the
way -- I have been playing with the beta version of this update as Japan
on hard/aggressive and having one hell of a hard time. I hope you will
have similar fun!

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update 

There are three main elements to this patch. The first is a
comprehensive upgrading of the AI. Now that the humans have learnt how
to play HOI 2 well, the AI has been given the benefit of their
understanding.

The second element is a large number of bug fixes and tweaks for
gameplay, balance and historicity. Some important examples are:

-   The Soviet Union has a combat penalty in the early years to reflect
    the chaos, incompetence and paranoia of the purge era. It will find
    it more difficult to bully its neighbours and so the debacle of the
    Winter War against Finland may be reproduced. It only becomes more
    effective after the Great Patriotic War is declared and the country
    is fighting for survival.

&nbsp;

-   You can no longer retreat immediately from naval combat. This means
    that you have to take your lumps before you can run away and so weak
    naval forces should be more cautious.

&nbsp;

-   Fuel-consuming units like armoured divisions no longer suffer from
    such severe movement penalties in badlands like the desert. They
    will now outpace infantry in such terrain and so can more
    effectively be used for deep thrusts, flanking moves and
    encirclements. To help fuel these units, the effectiveness of the
    oil conversion technologies has been improved so that the output of
    converted oil increases as the technology is developed.

&nbsp;

-   The technology teams have been reviewed and rebalanced. You will
    need to check the skills of your favourite teams to see if they have
    changed and maybe look for new choices for your research. Many
    technologies have an especially difficult prototype stage and the
    importance of this can now be seen more clearly.

&nbsp;

-   The countries which have large peacetime penalties like the USA now
    get corresponding decreases in their raw material output too. This
    means that the balance between output and consumption of raw
    materials is more closely matched at a global level and so you will
    need to trade harder in the early years to build up large
    stockpiles.

The third element of the patch is the new features. There are interface
improvements like the display of the techs that your allies are
researching. There are new modding features like the improved support
for the custom sprites that we'd all like to see. And there are new
scenarios including a complete new campaign starting in 1938. This
starts just before the Munich crisis - one year before the historical
outbreak of the war between the Allies and Germany over Poland. This is
intended to get you into the action sooner while still giving you some
time to prepare for it. Germany has yet to develop its full strength but
the Allies are still not ready for war and the Soviets are wracked by
the purges. Who will make the first move ... ?

  

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update 

There are basically three elements to this patch. First of all, we've
worked on eliminated the reminaing bugs and complaints, as well as
removing exploits. Secondly, we've finetuned and balanced the game, to
provide a richer experience. Thirdly, we've severly improved the AI to
provide more challeging and rewarding gameplay.

Features include the following

-   The Front AI has been vastly improved. Expect to see much more of a
    challenge in attacking or defending. You want to make sure that your
    units org is high and use the principles of combined arms.

&nbsp;

-   The production AI will now do a better job of fielding the latest
    technology units.

&nbsp;

-   The Production Queue AI has been revamped for many countries to
    produce a better mix of units. In particular national asset units
    like transport planes and paratroopers are now built in moderation.

&nbsp;

-   The AI now knows better how to concentrate and use its Naval Power
    creating more effective Task Forces.

&nbsp;

-   Polished MP game experience by getting rid of some annoying MP-only
    bugs, like the well known mismatch on serial production of province
    developments.

&nbsp;

-   Revamped the cost and supply/oil usage of nearly every brigade to
    make them more worthwhile to build. You'll find that it's a good
    sport to build a mixed army more, instead of just plain infantry
    armies.

&nbsp;

-   A bunch of new events were included as a feature: Vichy has a
    complete new event chain, there's surrender events for China & Japan
    towards eachother, Bulgaria can claim Constanta,... and more.

&nbsp;

-   Beware of partisans now! They will be there. The partisans
    parameters were reworked and you'll actively have to suppress them
    in a number of areas.

&nbsp;

-   King Winter is back in town and carries a big stick! Think twice
    before fighting long fights and carrying through big offensives in
    the heart of winter. You'll find your troops in a bit more trouble
    if you do, especially those nifty panzers, cool trucks and
    halftracks with their frozen engines.

&nbsp;

-   Close Air Support and Tactical Bombing can now cause alot more
    mayhem amongst the enemy units. Use your bombers wisely though.
    They'll be more effective in a number of roles, ranging from bombing
    stationary units in defence to retreating units and units in a
    fight.
[Template:HoI2
v1.3](/index.php?title=Template:HoI2_v1.3&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:HoI2 v1.3 (page does not exist)")

## Contents

-   [ 1 A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.1_Update)
    -   [ 1.1 Land Combat ](#Land_Combat)
    -   [ 1.2 Convoys and submarines ](#Convoys_and_submarines)
    -   [ 1.3 Air combat ](#Air_combat)
    -   [ 1.4 Diplomacy and political considerations
        ](#Diplomacy_and_political_considerations)
    -   [ 1.5 Production and research ](#Production_and_research)
-   [ 2 A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.2_Update)
-   [ 3 A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update
    ](#A_User.E2.80.99s_Guide_to_the_1.3_Update)

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.1 Update 

Anyone who has taken the trouble to read through the enormous “readme”
that comes with this update may well come away wondering what it’s all
about. As one player’s contribution to highlighting the more significant
changes among this thicket, here is a user’s guide to the most
significant changes you can expect to see in-game from it.

###  Land Combat 

A great deal of attention has been paid to slowing land combat down and
making it more difficult. “ [Fortress
Buster](/index.php?title=Fortress_Buster&action=edit&redlink=1 "Fortress Buster (page does not exist)")
” generals are now less powerful, which translates into making
fortresses more effective. Attacking in poor weather will now prove more
harmful for the attacker, and both sides will find attacking (or
counterattacking) at night more difficult. The bonus awarded to dug-in
defenders now has a maximum of 20%, doubling the old bonus of 10%. A
number of factors affecting land combat have been exported to the
misc.txt file, where they can be modified according to your priorities.
In particular, the effect of experience on combat have been halved in
this patch and exported to misc.txt, where it can be adjusted further.
Note too that the delay for units to recover from combat has been
extended to 24 hours and also exported for further tweaking. A lot of
comment in the general forum has already focused on the centrality of
this factor in gameplay, so its availability for adjustment is
particularly noteworthy. Another change, which Johan signaled would be
forthcoming after discussion about it in the general forum, was to make
it possible to arrange for units from more than one province to arrive
at their destination simultaneously. So now, when you give the order to
a unit to attack, you will see a button on the pop-up allowing you to
designate simultaneous arrival. Note, however, that ordering the units
to arrive simultaneously doesn't actually make them all pop into place
at the same moment. But it will get them there closer together.

###  Convoys and submarines 

If I had to pick the most significant group of changes in the entire
update, these would be my choice. The intent of these changes has been
three-fold: 1) To make submarine attacks on convoys less lethal, both by
reducing the number of attacks the subs can make and by increasing the
convoys’ protection by escorts. 2) To make convoying less susceptible to
sub attacks by directing the convoy a.i. to choose sea zones that are
not currently being attacked by submarines. Of course, this places a
greater burden on a nation’s convoy pool, but the advantage for convoy
survivability should be noticeable. 3) To make submarines less
vulnerable to detection and destruction by aircraft carriers or
sub-hunting surface ships. The overall effect, therefore, should be to
keep submarines at sea for longer periods without being destroyed and to
reduce their effect on convoys. You should note that the presence of the
submarines will also have an effect on the efficiency of your trade
agreements. More subs at sea translates into lower trade efficiency,
which is handled separately from convoys.

###  Air combat 

In an attempt to avoid the creation of huge stacks of air units locked
in seemingly eternal combat, a limit of 4 units has been placed on the
size of any one single air stack. The command limits of commanders have
been defined as 2 units for a major general, 4 for a lt. general, 8 for
an air general and 16 for an air marshal. In principle, this means an
air marshal still could assemble and command a 16-unit “stack” (4 x
4-unit stacks) for a major “Battle of Britain,” but given the randomness
built into the air mission routine this should not be too frequent.
Noteworthy too here is the attempt to better coordinate the air and
naval portions of the game. The a.i. will provide better air cover for
naval units and the effectiveness of naval bombers has been raised
slightly.

###  Diplomacy and political considerations 

One of the most important changes in this part of the game has been made
with respect to guarantees of independence. When countries are
a.i.-controlled, those guarantees should now be honored more often,
making it more difficult for would-be world conquerors to go rampaging
around without consequences. Some effort has been paid to keeping an
a.i.-controlled US from entering the game too early. Isolationist
countries (read “USA”) will no longer provide guarantees of independence
or form alliances. The effects of breaking non-aggression pacts are now
more severe in terms of a country’s belligerence rating, which again
should slow down WC (World Conquest). One of the most important changes
is a small one: dissent now affects your IC total, just as it did in
HOI. Dissent had lost much of its meaning in this game – this change
makes it something you once again have to pay attention to. It now
should be easier to create puppets from your conquered territories, a
must for countries hoping to reduce their belligerence levels. And on
the subject of puppets, veterans of HOI will want to know that now you
can attack from a puppet's territory, and, when a province is taken, the
province falls to the puppet master, not the puppet.

###  Production and research 

A number of miscellaneous changes have been made in the production of
particular units. Air transports are now less expensive, as are rockets
and atomic bombs. When you deploy province installations such as radar
sites or air bases, what you are “deploying” is only an increased
capacity for those installations. Only over time will they grow to be
the size specified. The effects of tech advances on the rate of airbase
construction has been reduced, which should slow a player’s ability to
continually hop forward with new bases (again, slowing WC). One of the
more interesting and easily overlooked changes has been the placement of
an upgrade and reinforcement cap (a limit on the sliders, actually) on
a.i.-controlled countries. The aim here has been to get the a.i. to
produce a more varied military force. These caps have been exported to
misc.txt for further tweaking. A considerable number of tech blocks
(i.e., instructions not to research given techs) have been inserted for
a.i.-controlled countries.

There you have it. Along with many, many other miscellaneous changes, I
hope this provides a satisfactory overview of the 1.1 update. And by the
way -- I have been playing with the beta version of this update as Japan
on hard/aggressive and having one hell of a hard time. I hope you will
have similar fun!

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.2 Update 

There are three main elements to this patch. The first is a
comprehensive upgrading of the AI. Now that the humans have learnt how
to play HOI 2 well, the AI has been given the benefit of their
understanding.

The second element is a large number of bug fixes and tweaks for
gameplay, balance and historicity. Some important examples are:

-   The Soviet Union has a combat penalty in the early years to reflect
    the chaos, incompetence and paranoia of the purge era. It will find
    it more difficult to bully its neighbours and so the debacle of the
    Winter War against Finland may be reproduced. It only becomes more
    effective after the Great Patriotic War is declared and the country
    is fighting for survival.

&nbsp;

-   You can no longer retreat immediately from naval combat. This means
    that you have to take your lumps before you can run away and so weak
    naval forces should be more cautious.

&nbsp;

-   Fuel-consuming units like armoured divisions no longer suffer from
    such severe movement penalties in badlands like the desert. They
    will now outpace infantry in such terrain and so can more
    effectively be used for deep thrusts, flanking moves and
    encirclements. To help fuel these units, the effectiveness of the
    oil conversion technologies has been improved so that the output of
    converted oil increases as the technology is developed.

&nbsp;

-   The technology teams have been reviewed and rebalanced. You will
    need to check the skills of your favourite teams to see if they have
    changed and maybe look for new choices for your research. Many
    technologies have an especially difficult prototype stage and the
    importance of this can now be seen more clearly.

&nbsp;

-   The countries which have large peacetime penalties like the USA now
    get corresponding decreases in their raw material output too. This
    means that the balance between output and consumption of raw
    materials is more closely matched at a global level and so you will
    need to trade harder in the early years to build up large
    stockpiles.

The third element of the patch is the new features. There are interface
improvements like the display of the techs that your allies are
researching. There are new modding features like the improved support
for the custom sprites that we'd all like to see. And there are new
scenarios including a complete new campaign starting in 1938. This
starts just before the Munich crisis - one year before the historical
outbreak of the war between the Allies and Germany over Poland. This is
intended to get you into the action sooner while still giving you some
time to prepare for it. Germany has yet to develop its full strength but
the Allies are still not ready for war and the Soviets are wracked by
the purges. Who will make the first move ... ?

  

##    A User’s Guide to the 1.3 Update 

There are basically three elements to this patch. First of all, we've
worked on eliminated the reminaing bugs and complaints, as well as
removing exploits. Secondly, we've finetuned and balanced the game, to
provide a richer experience. Thirdly, we've severly improved the AI to
provide more challeging and rewarding gameplay.

Features include the following

-   The Front AI has been vastly improved. Expect to see much more of a
    challenge in attacking or defending. You want to make sure that your
    units org is high and use the principles of combined arms.

&nbsp;

-   The production AI will now do a better job of fielding the latest
    technology units.

&nbsp;

-   The Production Queue AI has been revamped for many countries to
    produce a better mix of units. In particular national asset units
    like transport planes and paratroopers are now built in moderation.

&nbsp;

-   The AI now knows better how to concentrate and use its Naval Power
    creating more effective Task Forces.

&nbsp;

-   Polished MP game experience by getting rid of some annoying MP-only
    bugs, like the well known mismatch on serial production of province
    developments.

&nbsp;

-   Revamped the cost and supply/oil usage of nearly every brigade to
    make them more worthwhile to build. You'll find that it's a good
    sport to build a mixed army more, instead of just plain infantry
    armies.

&nbsp;

-   A bunch of new events were included as a feature: Vichy has a
    complete new event chain, there's surrender events for China & Japan
    towards eachother, Bulgaria can claim Constanta,... and more.

&nbsp;

-   Beware of partisans now! They will be there. The partisans
    parameters were reworked and you'll actively have to suppress them
    in a number of areas.

&nbsp;

-   King Winter is back in town and carries a big stick! Think twice
    before fighting long fights and carrying through big offensives in
    the heart of winter. You'll find your troops in a bit more trouble
    if you do, especially those nifty panzers, cool trucks and
    halftracks with their frozen engines.

&nbsp;

-   Close Air Support and Tactical Bombing can now cause alot more
    mayhem amongst the enemy units. Use your bombers wisely though.
    They'll be more effective in a number of roles, ranging from bombing
    stationary units in defence to retreating units and units in a
    fight.
