---
title: "Colonial_empire_an_alternative_strategy_for_japan"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 Colonial Empire An Alternative Strategy for Japan
    ](#Colonial_Empire_An_Alternative_Strategy_for_Japan)
    -   [ 1.1 Important Points ](#Important_Points)
    -   [ 1.2 Start ](#Start)
    -   [ 1.3 Intervene into Chinese Civil War
        ](#Intervene_into_Chinese_Civil_War)
    -   [ 1.4 Invasion of Dutch East Indies
        ](#Invasion_of_Dutch_East_Indies)
    -   [ 1.5 Invasion of Portuguese Africa
        ](#Invasion_of_Portuguese_Africa)
    -   [ 1.6 Invasion of Belgian Congo ](#Invasion_of_Belgian_Congo)
    -   [ 1.7 Watch the Great Show in Europe
        ](#Watch_the_Great_Show_in_Europe)
    -   [ 1.8 Annexation of French Indochina
        ](#Annexation_of_French_Indochina)
    -   [ 1.9 Allies or Axis, that's the Problem
        ](#Allies_or_Axis.2C_that.27s_the_Problem)
    -   [ 1.10 Invasion of the USA ](#Invasion_of_the_USA)
    -   [ 1.11 Invasion of China ](#Invasion_of_China)

##  Colonial Empire An Alternative Strategy for Japan 

Why go to war against those hapless Chinese? After all, they are the
same mankind as you. Although they are hoaxed by those Western
imperilists and learn to hate you without any reason, you can show them
you are not their rival. And they are not yours, either. Those western
colonial powers are.

This article will describe an ahistorical route Japan can choose in the
1936 GC. This is called "colonial empire" pathway. The strategy is
simple: take all the weakling European countries' belongings while avoid
going to war against the British too early. \[NOTE: After playtesting
this strategy it is not clear that it is at all viable, due to certain
key points. The UK seems to be hardcoded to declare war on Japan if
Japan attacks the Dutch, regardless of how good relations are, negating
a major point of this plan. It also does not seem possible to put a
Naval Base on Curacao, as it is too far from any other Japanese base.\]

###  Important Points 

You need to keep good relationship with all the superpowers, a.k.a, UK,
France, USSR, USA, and Germany. Except for the last one, all of the rest
are in bad relationship with you from the beginning. Do a lot of trade
with them and they will grow liking you. Also pour some IC in consumer
goods. That'll give you money for research and support your diplomatic
moves. In this strategy diplomacy is crucial for you.

Also you need to keep your belligerence down. Specifically, avoid
getting 80 too early. 80 is the magic number USA will gear up for war.
You don't want to awake a sleeping giant too early, do you? Unless you
do not want to fight USA, the answer should be no.

###  Start 

Start from 1936 GC, put your production slider heavily on supplies and
consumer goods. Trade supplies with every major power to get everything
else you need. Don't worry about the steep price, these investments will
reward you handily. The most important countries in this strategy are
France and UK. Try to boost relationship with them as high as possible.
When necessary, use influence country (you need a lot of money to do
this, for sure). You don't need to produce a lot of units, BTW. A long
series of light cruisers may be nice for the gearing bonus. Ditto for
infantry divisions and engineers (you will need it a lot later).

Release your puppet Manchukuo. They are a liability as your puppet and
some bigots in their government will cause you a lot of trouble. You can
even pull off your force there to put them into some place more worthy.
DON'T get entangled by them. You can always attack and annex them later,
but now just leave them as they are.

###  Intervene into Chinese Civil War 

From the start you have the option to invade Guangxi Clique when they
DOW at Nationalist China. That will boost your IC a little bit by
grabbing Guangzhou and some resource-rich area from them. Also Hainan as
a nice springboard for further conquest.

###  Invasion of Dutch East Indies 

You can do it either before or after Marco Polo Bridge Incidents. Doing
it before is preferable but you may need some luck here. Normally your
relationship with France and UK should be good enough to keep them from
intervening. Strike quickly and snap up all VP provinces in Dutch East
Indies. They won't put up even token resistance. In the meantime still
keep good relationships with the UK and France. They may cancel trade
agreements, but you just bribe them and negotiate with them again. Sue
for peace with the Netherlands. You don't need a lot of provinces: just
ask for those resource-rich ones, like East Java, Banka Island, South
Sumatra and South Borneo. *Don't forget* to ask for Curacao, you need it
for the next phase. *don't* ask for Batavia. You may have to try this
several times before a deal is agreed

Note that there is a disadvantage to attacking the Dutch East Indies
before Germany has conquered the Netherlands' European provinces.
Germany's conquest of the Netherlands leaves the Netherlands East Indies
the only remaining territory in Dutch posession. If you attack the Dutch
East Indies after the Dutch have lost their European holding, you can
annex the Netherlands and seize their sizeable stockpile of resources --
thus making up for Japan's limited ability to produce the same.

###  Invasion of Portuguese Africa 

Build a naval base in Curacao. Wait your belligerence to drop (Hirohito
will drop your belligerence in peace time) a little bit. Build up good
relationship with UK and France, and virtually every one else.

By mid-1938, bring some army units to Curacao and DOW Portugal. If you
cannot figure out how to send armies in CuracaoÂ : select the REBASE
mission in the transport unit's detail (right-clicking on the province
does not work).

Grab Cape Verdes from Curacao (be sure you have the range, so make up
your fleet with your most advanced CAs, BCs and BBs, although actually
it does not matter anyway since Portuguese Navy is pitiful). Attack the
Azores and from there, hop into Portugal's home territory. Grab
everything they have there and then sue for peace. Ask for every thing
other than their 5 national provinces. If they do not accept, grab
Bissao, Cabinda and normally they will cave in. Now you will have two
firm naval bases in the Atlantic Ocean (the Azores and Cape Verdes),
also Portugal's Africa belongings (Angola and Mozambique). As a bonus
you will also have Macao and East Timor.

###  Invasion of Belgian Congo 

Now await the development of Europe while building up your navy. Wait
well into 1939, maybe early 1940, after Poland has fallen, to DOW
Belgium. Attack Belgian Congo from Angola, using infantry with
engineers. This will take some weeks but once you grab the two VP
provinces close to the coast Belgium will normally cave in. (Having
German troops along their border may be a reason.) You will have all the
Belgian Congo which is very rich in metals.

###  Watch the Great Show in Europe 

Now you again wait for developments in Europe. France and UK may start
to influence you, which is sweet. Just wait patiently. France and UK may
build up troops along the border of your African possessions, but with
Germany at their gate they won't be able to attack you. When Germany
initiates its attack on the west front, France often falls quicker than
in history, because a good chunk of its troops will be garrisoned in
French Equatorial Africa. Ditto for UK. With most of their African
Legion in Rhodesia and South Africa, Italy can steamroll Egypt and
Sudan.

###  Annexation of French [Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") 

When France falls the vichy event will be triggered. After Vichy France
forms, you will receive an event to request
[Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") . Choose ask for
[Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") and Vichy will usually accept. Don't
ask for [Madagascar](/Madagascar "Madagascar") since the chance of
suceeding is very small.

###    Allies or Axis, that's the Problem 

Now you are in a situation virtually to choose between the two major
alliance. I would say choose the Axis, simply because they can offer you
more than the Allies. Once you join the Axis, be quick to take out South
Africa. They've got 5 VP provinces, and 4 can be reached immediately by
your troop from Mozambique and your marines from the sea. Marching into
the last one takes some time, though. In the meantime send a troop North
into British East Africa and cut into Lake Victoria and eventually
Kigali. Use infantry with engineers. After you annex South Africa, the
British troops in Rhodesia and Nyassaland will be trapped and out of
supply. Don't worry about them now, just use garrisons and a few
divisions to keep them encircled. You can grab them bit by bit later.

Assuming Germany did its homework in occupying Netherland's European
provinces, attack Netherlands's holding in Indonesia and annex it. After
Amsterdam falls, the capital will move to Batavia and you will end up
with all of the rest of Netherlands' territory. That's the reason why
you do not take Batavia in your previous campaign, because in that case
you need to grab every small island piece by piece or Germany will get
the lion's share of them. Also attack and take Malaya. Don't bother to
lean on Siam, they will be a good buffer state between Burma and your
[Indochina](/Indochina "Indochina") possession. Don't bother to attack
Burma either. Just move your troops quickly into India and occupy it. By
this time most of the Indian army should be in the Middle East so this
will not be hard.

What to do next depends on your preference. You can try fighting the
Royal Navy in the North Atlantic Ocean, where your carriers and
superheavy BBs (Yamato and Musashi) will come in handy. You can also try
helping Italy to invade the Middle East. In the Pacific theater, you can
annex Australia and New Zealand, then the rest of VP islands in the
Pacific.

You may be able to annex France by the middle of 1941. After defeating
the Royal Navy, Britain is yours to take. Then you can try to play with
your armies to help Germany to conquer Soviet Union.

###  Invasion of the USA 

This should be relatively simple. You can use either Canada or Carribean
islands as a staging point. The USA AI is coded to deal with a Pacific
campaign, so often you can catch them by surprise from the Atlantic
Ocean. However, if you really go into war against the USA, strike
quickly into their home territory and take out most of the east coast
provinces to severely cramp its war economy. If the war goes into
attrition you will find yourself overstretched.

###  Invasion of China 

Why bother? They don't have much to offer anyway. You can try if you
want a tough fight. Especially if you are in war with Soviet Union.
Invading China in 1941 will be much harder than early date because the
quality of their army will be much better.
