---
title: "Conducting_blitzkrieg_offensives"
---

[Template:Anthology](/index.php?title=Template:Anthology&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Anthology (page does not exist)")

[TABLE]

## Contents

-   [ 1 Introduction ](#Introduction)
-   [ 2 Infrastructure and installations
    ](#Infrastructure_and_installations)
-   [ 3 Forces needed ](#Forces_needed)
-   [ 4 Conduct of the campaign ](#Conduct_of_the_campaign)

##  Introduction 

This guide looks at the art of Blitzkrieg, or lightning war: defeating
an enemy through rapid advances of armoured spearheads in co-operation
with encircling infantry and dive bombers. It’s a style of gameplay
commonly associated with Germany, but while Germany is indeed
particularly good at it, many countries can ‘blitzkrieg’. There are
quite a few reasons why you’d want to:

1.  It gives the game a nice ‘historical’ feeling and makes optimal use
    of generals’ abilities. Some of them (like Rommel, Patton or
    Guderian) are only really happy when commanding tank columns.
2.  It allows campaigns to be concluded very fast; for instance,
    attacking Poland as Germany, with a good Blitzkrieg offensive the
    Polish military will be crushed and much of Poland occupied within
    five days.
3.  It destroys enemy forces, rather than pushing them back. Before I
    began to ‘blitzkrieg’ properly, for instance, I found that I was
    fighting largely the same Russian forces in the Caucasus that I’d
    fought in Poland. This is dangerous because it allows the enemy to
    gather experience, allows them to fight you every step of the way,
    and even retain a possible numerical advantage over you.

That being said, you need two things for this strategy:

1.  The industrial power to build largish numbers of armoured divisions
    and planes.
2.  Good terrain (preferably plains) and infrastructure (80% or above).
    In practice, this means Blitzkrieg is particularly suited to Europe;
    the infrastructure of much of Africa, the Americas and Asia is too
    poor to allow rapid advances.

I’ll explain Blitzkrieg by the example of Fall Weiß, the German invasion
of Poland. This guide applies to version 1.3a and has not been tested
for Doomsday.

  

##  Infrastructure and installations 

Blitzkrieg relies heavily on the ability of your forces to advance and
occupy ground fast. Therefore, make sure the infrastructure in the
provinces you’re attacking from is as good as possible. In the case of
Germany, this means that you should increase the infrastructure in
Oppeln to 100%.

You’ll also need good airbases close to the fray. I tend to build
airfields up to level 10 in both Küstrin and Oppeln, but this is up to
you.

  

##  Forces needed 

Armoured divisions are obviously key to the entire operation so you
should have a good number of them. For the composition of your
spearheads there are three possibilities in general.

1.  The first one prefers speed over everything else and uses 3 armored
    divisions (medium armor) with self-propelled artillery or unbrigaded
    armor. This one is the fastest but has often problems with
    outrunning their own infantry-support and getting cut off by
    retreating enemy units. The use of motorized infantry as following
    units usually solves this problem though.
2.  The second one still prefers speed but uses heavy armor to increase
    toughness and firepower. If your enemy has strong defenses in second
    line, they are you choice as they can solve strong enemy resistance
    without losing too much organization.
3.  The third composition mixes motorized and armored divisions in a
    relation of 2:1 (or 1:2) to get the "Combined Arms" bonus in combat.
    Unfortunately that bonus is inferior to a pure tank corps and the
    motorized infantry will also slow your tanks down. So you should
    only use it if lack of mobile forces and want to increase your
    number of mobile forces by mixing motorized infantry and armored
    divisions.

Finally, give the corps fancy names and appoint competent commanders; in
our example, Guderian, Hausser, and von Manstein are excellent. Don’t
miss out on Rommel; he only becomes available in 1939. Concentrate the
tanks in two or three provinces. I usually create five armoured corps,
three of which I deploy in Oppeln and two in Stettin.

Infantry is also best organized in three-division corps. Brigade them,
too, but since speed isn’t as important for the infantry, you can give
them cheaper artillery rather than self-propelled artillery, etc. It
makes sense to have specialized corps for certain tasks; one might
choose to keep a mountain corps, an airborne corps and a marine corps
ready. There’s nothing wrong with using them as regular infantry; this
way they’ll gain experience to do the stuff they actually specialize in.
Keep infantry in every border province to block possible
counter-attacks; don’t forget to also garrison Ostrava after gaining the
Sudetenland. Motorized infantry is generally useful, but unnecessary for
Fall Weiß. During later campaigns, however, motorized and especially
mechanized infantry should be the backbone of your forces. Cavalry may
look rubbish (and the game’s description makes it sound it, to boot),
but it’s actually quite good as fast reinforcements for your tanks. HQs
are essential; consult the excellent guide [HQ Units in
Action](/HQ_Units_in_Action "HQ Units in Action") for their effects and
deployment.

Your air force should consist of a good number of close air support
(CAS) and tactical bombers (TAC). They require escort fighters (ESC)!
Deploy them in formations of four, e.g. two CAS and two ESC. If you have
Doomsday or Armageddon, where ESC are now a brigade to attach to
aircraft, rather than a separate unit, you can simply deploy four TAC in
a group and then brigade them with ESC. Note that CAS cannot accept ESC
brigades! Put each formation under the command of someone capable – tank
busters are good, carpet bombers not so. I tend to have three formations
of CAS, one in Königsberg, one in Küstrin, and one in Oppeln. Aim to
have an equivalent number of TAC in equivalent groups. Having a few
fighters to gain air superiority wouldn’t hurt, either.

The task of the navy in Blitzkrieg is support; its importance is
generally not great, but it can be used offensively by landing task
forces of marines in undefended enemy provinces.

##  Conduct of the campaign 

Blitzkrieg is pretty counter-intuitive. Rather than advancing on a broad
front (as I used to do), it is based on hurling tanks deep into enemy
territory whilst leaving your infantry to mop up enemy forces caught in
pockets behind your rapidly advancing front. It looks weird on the map,
but achieves incredible results.

Wait for the ‘Danzig or War’ event – otherwise Danzig won’t be one of
your national provinces later. When war is declared, immediately use
your air force. CAS should be used for ground attack, TAC for
interdiction. Use your planes in Küstrin to cover the Poznan area; those
in Königsberg to attack East Prussia; and those in Oppeln to bomb the
Cracow area. Runway cratering is very effective in grounding enemy
aircraft as they wont be able to repair and reorganize. You do not need
to worry about your troops being unable to use that airfields as any
airfields/ports will suffer 100% damage when your troops enter the
province. Your fighters should gain air superiority in Poznan and
Warsaw. At dawn, attack. Ideally, attack Bydgoscz, Czestochowa, and
Przemysl at 00:00 and the rest at 0500. The Poles often begin retreating
immediately and the Panzers need to cut them off before they leave the
province. Don't forget supporting attacks from OTHER adjacent provinces.
It adds 10% for a flank attack. Put your armoured spearheads on an
offensive supply footing (the little green arrow). Then attack the enemy
with three armoured corps and whatever infantry you have available in
Czestochowa from Oppeln, and with two armoured corps and infantry in
Bydgoscz from Stettin. You also need to attack Przemysl from Kosice, to
close the door on Cracow's defenders and get a straight shot for your
armor to Lublin. These are your *Schwerpunkte* , or focal points, where
all available force is used to achieve a breakthrough along a narrowly
defined sector of the front. Remember to leave each province bordering
the enemy garrisoned by at least three divisions. Your spearheads should
achieve a rapid breakthrough. After taking Bydgoscz, have your armoured
corps take Lodz, then move on to Radom. Crossing rivers slows down the
panzers; better to load troops in Elbing, take Torun with support from
Königsberg, then cross into Lomza, providing another front to attack
Warsaw. Danzig – now a pocket – tends not to be garrisoned by the enemy,
and could be taken by an infantry division – but why not use this as
practice for your marines? Carry out an amphibious assault.

In the south, after taking Czestochowa, have one of your armoured corps
advance straight to Lublin via Kielce or Radom. It might be better to do
this from Kosice, as there are no rivers to cross. You’ll have noticed
by now that the Poles were concentrating all their forces on your common
border; after achieving a breakthrough, therefore, you can pretty much
advance at will. Besides the corps advancing to Lublin, have the other
two armoured corps move to Kielce (a must, as its a backdoor for Cracow)
from where one, supported by the other, is to attack Przemysl. Always
remember to follow up the armoured offensive with infantry to hold the
newly conquered province.

Once you’ve taken all these provinces, you’ll notice something. Three
enemy provinces – Poznan, Cracow and Warsaw – should be encircled, and
all should have substantial enemy garrisons, whose retreat you’ve cut
off. It’s time for your infantry to shine. Mop up all the pockets; have
just one corps attack, while all others support the attack. It doesn’t
matter that your poor foot soldiers will take ages to get to those
provinces. You’ll have wiped out about twenty-five Polish divisions.
After that, you can advance at will; the enemy will be too weak to mount
an effective resistance. There are few victory points in eastern Poland
anyway. Annex them the moment you can.

Realistically speaking, of course, the encircled pockets won't happen at
the same time; Poznan will likely be cut off first. It makes sense to
crush a pocket the moment you can - in the case of Poznan, attack once
you've taken Bydgoscz, Lodz and Czestochowa. One word of warning,
though: don't get too obsessed with envelopments or you'll lose tactical
flexibility and might overlook opportunities.

Overlooked is the needed attack on Cracow at 0500 hours. FIVE provinces
border so use a division from the other 4 to support for the ENVELOPMENT
through flanking bonus. Lastly, Warsaw can be a tough nut to crack and
armor sucks in that urban terrain. I use mountain troops with engineer
brigades from out of Elbing to attack from Torun and Lomza AND cavalry
with engineer leaders who come thru Czestochowa-Radom-Lublin to hit
Warsaw from the rear. Supporting armor/HQ's from Radom and Lublin can
boost your odds then.

With certain modifications (allowing for greater distances, more enemy
armour and aircraft, different terrain, etc.), this basic strategy can
be used against most of Germany’s continental enemies, excluding those
with a difficult geography, like Denmark and Greece.
