---
title: "Confederate_states"
---

The Confederate States is only playable if you have taken over the USA
all ready. Further, if you manipulate the game play some, and jump from
nation to nation while playing, you can make it so the U.S. is not able
to fight back in the game, which means you can use the Confederate
States in the 1930's. So long as you get any South or Central American
nation to Invade the U.S., and play as the U.S. and manipulate them so
that they do not have any defenses. (Which can be done by saving the
game, going and choosing that save, and then choosing the U.S. as the
nation to play with. (Dirty ,I know, but its fun playing as them, or
whoever else you so please from the three nations you are able to create
from the U.S.A. And yes, this is performed outside of the Armageddon
version of the game. This can be done in the normal Hearts Of Iron II
game play. Just requires some cheating.

They hold Territory from Texas, all the way to the East coast. As far
south as Miami, and as North as Richmond. This is only so if you have
not liberated Texas first. If you did, then a large portion of the
Confederate States belong to Texas.

My strategy for the confederates consists of building the nation a
military, and industry sense they start with close to nothing. Once you
build them up though, they are pretty tough. If you take over Mexico,
i've found that it helps with IC, which the Confeds desperately need in
the game.

It's also worth noting, that after this the game dynamics change a
little bit. If you leave the U.S. as a nation in the Northern part of
its former land, it wont participate in any major events and will be
close to useless.It also doesn't join the Allies, it just stays an
isolationist. Also, for some reason Japan never invades Asia or joins
the Axis. Also, if you leave California or Texas to their own devices,
they have the ability to become pretty tough and a pain in the but to
deal with later on.

Note: You guys can alter this however you want of course, I just added
this because it is a nation in the normal game play.
