---
title: "Energy_to_oil_conversion"
---

As determined by **Steel** et al.:

The amount of energy used in conversion is based on your conversion
tech. The amount of oil that is converted is capped by your Industrial
Capacity. You get oil equal to 1/10 of your available IC (with 150 IC
you would get 15 oil converted).

Conversion is automatically activated when the energy stockpile is more
than twice the size of the oil stockpile. Your daily oil consumption
doesn't really factor in (other than in terms of how it changes the
stockpiles). Conversion is automatic - you can not decide to turn it on
or off.

Techs that increase your oil conversion modifiers only decrease the
amount of energy used - the amount of oil produced remains the same. For
example, if you are converting 100 energy to 10 oil, and you develop the
technology for .25 oil conversion, you will then convert 40 energy to
get 10 oil, and with the third tech you will use 25 energy to get 10
oil. You use/save more energy, but get no more oil from better
conversion techs, until you research the very last tech and get a very
small increase.

The best solution often is to trade for oil rather than letting
automatic conversion kick in, or to trade away your energy. If automatic
conversion starts up, it will run as long as your energy stockpile is
more than twice your oil stockpile. You can also negotiate one time
deals of up to 5000 energy or any other tradable item to see how much
oil you can get.
