---
title: "Fallout"
---

We would like to introduce you to **Fallout's Doomsday** , a post
apocalyptic mod for Hearts of Iron 2 Doomsday Armageddon.

Have you been thinking about reuniting USA as a nation long after the
world ended, leading your armies across radiated deserts to fight the
mutated monsters and raiders out there? Or maybe you have been dreaming
about conquering those weak humans while leading an army of powerful
Mutant warriors to victory in their endless wars? Or perhaps you want to
control the Enclave, the shadowy survivors of the pre-War US government
who fled to their offshore bases before the Bombs fell, using their high
tech science and sinister experiments to establish a new world order?

All those paths await you in a new mod that has been created as a
tribute for two best computer role playing games ever: Fallout 1 and
Fallout 2. Set in a post Apocalyptic world 167 years after the Bomb was
dropped, this is complete science fiction conversion to HOI2. Completely
new tech tree, units, resources, economy, and nation groups; all with
unique graphics. A completely new gaming experience for the best WW2
strategy game ever made: Hearts of Iron 2.

The mod is set in the Wastelands, the radioactive and windswept remnant
of what was once North America. Take control of one of the many groups
rising to power on top of the ashes and ruins of pre-War civilisation.
Build industries and infrastructure, research technologies, manage your
resources, conduct diplomacy with other nations, build and manage your
military forces to achieve dominance over the Wastelands.

  

-   Mod Forum: [Fallout's Doomsday
    Forum](http://terranova.dk/viewforum.php?f=15)
-   Mod Thread on Paradox Interactive Forum: [War, War Never
    Changes...](http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?311272-War-war-never-changes...)
