---
title: "Ground_unit_statistics"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 HOI versions 1.0 - 1.3 ](#HOI_versions_1.0_-_1.3)
    -   [ 1.1 Ground Units ](#Ground_Units)
        -   [ 1.1.1 Armored Division ](#Armored_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.2 Cavalry Division ](#Cavalry_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.3 Garrison Division ](#Garrison_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.4 HQ Division ](#HQ_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.5 Infantry Division ](#Infantry_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.6 Light Armored Division ](#Light_Armored_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.7 Marine Division ](#Marine_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.8 Mechanized Division ](#Mechanized_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.9 Militia Division ](#Militia_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.10 Motorized Division ](#Motorized_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.11 Mountain Division ](#Mountain_Division)
        -   [ 1.1.12 Paratroop Division ](#Paratroop_Division)
    -   [ 1.2 Brigade Units ](#Brigade_Units)
        -   [ 1.2.1 Anti-aircraft Brigade ](#Anti-aircraft_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.2 Anti-tank Brigade ](#Anti-tank_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.3 Armored Car Brigade ](#Armored_Car_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.4 Artillery Brigade ](#Artillery_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.5 Engineer Brigade ](#Engineer_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.6 Heavy Armored Brigade ](#Heavy_Armored_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.7 Light Armored Brigade ](#Light_Armored_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.8 Police Brigade ](#Police_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.9 Rocket Artillery Brigade
            ](#Rocket_Artillery_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.10 Self-Propelled Artillery Brigade
            ](#Self-Propelled_Artillery_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.11 Self-Propelled Rocket Artillery Brigade
            ](#Self-Propelled_Rocket_Artillery_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.12 Super Heavy Armored Brigade
            ](#Super_Heavy_Armored_Brigade)
        -   [ 1.2.13 Tank Destroyer Brigade ](#Tank_Destroyer_Brigade)
    -   [ 1.3 Download PDF ](#Download_PDF)
-   [ 2 Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 ](#Doomsday_1.0_-_1.3)

##  HOI versions 1.0 - 1.3 

###  Ground Units 

####  [Armored Division](/Armored_Division "Armored Division") 

Armoured units allow real projection of power on the battlefield. Their
speed and firepower make them lethal against all but the best entrenched
Infantry. However, as tanks became heaver, their speeds would reduce
accordingly. They also required a constant supply of fuel to remain in
the field, and if this vital supply was severed, the armoured unit would
be next to useless.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Armored'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Armored Car' 'Engineer' 'Heavy Armor' 'Light Armor Brigade' 'Sp
Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Super Heavy Armor' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Cavalry Division](/Cavalry_Division "Cavalry Division") 

Cavalry are able to move fairly rapidly over most types of terrain and
do not require a supply of fuel to operate, but they are lightly armed
when compared with Armoured units, and the automatic weapons of the time
can inflict devastating casualties to both men and horses. That is not
to say that Cavalry can't prove useful in some instances as a mobile
reserve.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Cavalry'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Armored Car' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Light Armor Brigade'
'Sp Artillery' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Garrison Division](/Garrison_Division "Garrison Division") 

Garrison Divisions are second line troops used to safeguard valuable
objectives far from the front lines. They lack heavy equipment and
transportation, making them immobile except for [strategic
redeployment](/index.php?title=Strategic_redeployment&action=edit&redlink=1 "Strategic redeployment (page does not exist)")
. They have limited fighting capability but can be used to free more
capable troops for frontline use.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Garrison'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Police' 'Rocket Artillery'

####  [HQ Division](/HQ_Division "HQ Division") 

Headquarters are the brains of your armed forces. They contain the staff
that keeps your army running, such as logistics and planning staff. They
give a bonus to the units fighting in the vicinity but it is advisable
to guard them, as their own fighting ability is poor.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'HQ'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Police' 'Rocket Artillery' 'Sp Artillery' 'Sp
Rct Artillery'

####  [Infantry Division](/Infantry_Division "Infantry Division") 

Infantry will most likely make up the bulk of your army. They are
relatively cheap to build and require no regular fuel supply to
manoeuvre, but their lack of motorized transport means their speed of
advance is limited. However, Infantry are able to occupy large areas of
land, securing ground captured by other forces.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Infantry'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Armored Car' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Light Armor Brigade'
'Police' 'Rocket Artillery' 'Sp Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Tank
Destroyer'

####  [Light Armored Division](/Light_Armored_Division "Light Armored Division") 

Armoured units allow real projection of power on the battlefield. Their
speed and firepower make them lethal against all but the best entrenched
Infantry. However, as tanks become heavier, their speeds will reduce
accordingly. They also require a constant supply of fuel to remain in
the field and if this vital supply is severed, the armoured unit will be
almost useless.

*Light armored divisions upgrade to basic medium armor divisions. The
advanced light armor tech allows you to build a light armor brigade
which can be added to almost every kind of division.*

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Light Armored'- divisions can have the following brigades attached:
'Anti Air' 'Armored Car' 'Engineer' 'Heavy Armor' 'Light Armor Brigade'
'Sp Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Super Heavy Armor' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Marine Division](/Marine_Division "Marine Division") 

Marines are an elite branch of the Infantry, specifically trained for
assaulting beaches and other naval operations. They make use of
specialised equipment and tactics to give them an edge over regular
Infantry in such an environment.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Marines'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Light Armor Brigade' 'Rocket
Artillery' 'Sp Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Mechanized Division](/Mechanized_Division "Mechanized Division") 

Mechanized Infantry are equipped with all-terrain vehicles, such as the
halftrack, which does not limit them to roads as with Motorized Infantry
and allows them to work well with armoured units. However, the
specialist equipment they require means their cost is high.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Mechanized'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Armored Car' 'Engineer' 'Heavy Armor' 'Light Armor Brigade'
'Sp Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Militia Division](/Militia_Division "Militia Division") 

Militia are a cheap and rapidly formed Infantry unit. Their hurried
training and poor equipment mean they are of little use in combat,
although they can be useful for controlling territory and as a last line
of defence when no other units are available.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Militia'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Armored Car' 'Artillery' 'Light Armor Brigade'

####  [Motorized Division](/Motorized_Division "Motorized Division") 

Motorized Infantry make use of wheeled vehicles, such as trucks, to
manoeuvre more rapidly than basic Infantry. But they are limited to
roads and so their performance may suffer in provinces with low
infrastructure levels.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Motorized'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Armored Car' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Light Armor Brigade'
'Rocket Artillery' 'Sp Artillery' 'Sp Rct Artillery' 'Tank Destroyer'

####  [Mountain Division](/Mountain_Division "Mountain Division") 

Mountain Troops are an elite branch of the Infantry, specifically
trained for operations in mountainous terrain. They make use of
specialised equipment and tactics to give them an edge over regular
Infantry in such an environment.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Mountain'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Artillery' 'Engineer' 'Police'

####  [Paratroop Division](/Paratroop_Division "Paratroop Division") 

Paratroopers are an elite branch of the Infantry, specifically trained
to either parachute to the ground or be ferried to a battle in gliders.
Their rapid deployment capability makes them ideal for use as a mobile
reserve or for use in capturing a strategic asset behind enemy lines.
However, they are handicapped by a lack of heavy equipment due to their
mode of travel, and when they are in action it is advisable to move
other units to their support.

[TABLE]

**Brigades allowed**

'Paratroops'-units can have the following brigades attached: 'Anti Air'
'Anti Tank' 'Artillery'

###  Brigade Units 

Brigade Unit effects apply only to the division to which they are
attached. They do not apply to the corps to which they are in.

####  [Anti-aircraft Brigade](/Anti-aircraft_Brigade "Anti-aircraft Brigade") 

Anti-Aircraft weapons will increase the 'Air Attack' capability of your
units, so that they inflict more damage on Aircraft.

[TABLE]

####  [Anti-tank Brigade](/Anti-tank_Brigade "Anti-tank Brigade") 

Anti-Tank weapons will increase the 'Hard Attack' capability of your
units, making them more effective against Armoured and Mechanized units.

[TABLE]

####  [Armored Car Brigade](/Armored_Car_Brigade "Armored Car Brigade") 

Armored Cars are wheeled vehicles, typically with light armour and
modest weaponry. They give your units an added capability against soft
targets, being most effective against supply trucks and rear area
troops.

[TABLE]

####  [Artillery Brigade](/Artillery_Brigade "Artillery Brigade") 

Artillery pieces will increase the 'Soft Attack' capability of your
units, inflicting more damage on Infantry and Motorized units.

[TABLE]

####  [Engineer Brigade](/Engineer_Brigade "Engineer Brigade") 

Engineer Brigades help crossing rivers, making the process quicker and
reducing disorganisation. The combat bonus is a +20 combat modifier for
the engineering brigade.

[TABLE]

####  [Heavy Armored Brigade](/Heavy_Armored_Brigade "Heavy Armored Brigade") 

Heavy Armor gives your units a considerable boost in both hard and soft
attack. Heavy Tanks are used when breaking enemy lines, being extremely
hard to kill. But they slow your units down and require considerable
amounts of supplies and fuel.

[TABLE]

####  [Light Armored Brigade](/Light_Armored_Brigade "Light Armored Brigade") 

Armoured units allow real projection of power on the battlefield. Their
speed and firepower make them lethal against all but the best entrenched
Infantry. However, as tanks become heavier, their speeds will reduce
accordingly. They also require a constant supply of fuel to remain in
the field and if this vital supply is severed, the armoured unit will be
almost useless.

[TABLE]

####  [Police Brigade](/Police_Brigade "Police Brigade") 

Police Brigades are good at suppressing partisans and rebels.

[TABLE]

####  [Rocket Artillery Brigade](/Rocket_Artillery_Brigade "Rocket Artillery Brigade") 

Rocket Artillery gives your units an added capability against soft
units. Rockets are an area weapon, saturating an area with explosions,
and are thus most effective against Infantry concentrations.

[TABLE]

####  [Self-Propelled Artillery Brigade](/Self-Propelled_Artillery_Brigade "Self-Propelled Artillery Brigade") 

SP, or Self-Propelled, Artillery gives your armored and mechanized units
an additional punch against enemy infantry while not reducing the speed
of those units as much as normal artillery.

[TABLE]

####  [Self-Propelled Rocket Artillery Brigade](/Self-Propelled_Rocket_Artillery_Brigade "Self-Propelled Rocket Artillery Brigade") 

SP, or Self-Propelled, Rocket Artillery gives your armored and
mechanized units added capability against soft units such as infantry.
They are very effective against enemy infantry, and do not reduce the
speed of your fast units like normal rocket artillery.

[TABLE]

####  [Super Heavy Armored Brigade](/Super_Heavy_Armored_Brigade "Super Heavy Armored Brigade") 

Super Heavy Armor is the ultimate shock weapon. Nearly impossible to
kill, they give horrendous bonuses to your units' hard and soft attack
values. They also consume enormous amounts of supplies and fuel, and
slow your units to a crawl.

[TABLE]

####  [Tank Destroyer Brigade](/Tank_Destroyer_Brigade "Tank Destroyer Brigade") 

Tank Destroyers are similar to normal Tanks. The difference is that they
don't have a rotating turret, and mount most of their armor to the
front. They give your units an added capability against hard targets
such as enemy armor.

[TABLE]

###  Download PDF 

-   [Ground unit
    overview](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=GroundUnitOverview.pdf "GroundUnitOverview.pdf")
-   [Ground
    divisions](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=DivisionStatistics.pdf "DivisionStatistics.pdf")
-   [Ground
    brigades](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=BrigadeStatistics.pdf "BrigadeStatistics.pdf")
-   [Ground unit combat
    modifiers](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=GroundUnitCombatModifiers.pdf "GroundUnitCombatModifiers.pdf")

##  Doomsday 1.0 - 1.3 

Available as a PDF file: [Land Unit
Statistics](/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=UnitStats_DD12_Land.pdf "UnitStats DD12 Land.pdf")
. Also, a complete Excel file is available: [DD UnitStats v1.2 Excel
File](http://joe-s.home.insightbb.com/hoi2dd.htm)
