---
title: "Militia_strategy_guide"
---

[Template:Anthology](/index.php?title=Template:Anthology&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Anthology (page does not exist)")
At first glance, the [Militia
Division](/Militia_Division "Militia Division") seems to be a worthless
unit. When comparing the statistics of Militia to any other land unit,
they are clearly inferior. Yet, Militia is so valuable and important to
your army that every nation in the game should use Militia when they are
able to do so.

## Contents

-   [ 1 Comparison to Infantry ](#Comparison_to_Infantry)
    -   [ 1.1 Value ](#Value)
    -   [ 1.2 Absorbing Bullets ](#Absorbing_Bullets)
    -   [ 1.3 Battle Winning Ability ](#Battle_Winning_Ability)
    -   [ 1.4 Command Limit ](#Command_Limit)
-   [ 2 The Manpower issue ](#The_Manpower_issue)
    -   [ 2.1 The problem ](#The_problem)
    -   [ 2.2 Consequences ](#Consequences)
        -   [ 2.2.1 States which should rely heavily on Militia
            ](#States_which_should_rely_heavily_on_Militia)
        -   [ 2.2.2 States which could use some Militia
            ](#States_which_could_use_some_Militia)
        -   [ 2.2.3 States which cannot afford Militia, manpower-wise
            ](#States_which_cannot_afford_Militia.2C_manpower-wise)

##  Comparison to Infantry 

|              |     |        |          |          |           |           |           |               |          |      |            |          |           |              |             |
|--------------|-----|--------|----------|----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|---------------|----------|------|------------|----------|-----------|--------------|-------------|
| Model        | ORG | Morale | Air Att. | Air Def. | Soft Att. | Hard Att. | Toughness | Defensiveness | Softness | Cost | Build-time | Manpower | Max Speed | Supply Cons. | Suppression |
| Infantry '36 | 30  | 30     | 2        | 3        | 10        | 1         | 12        | 15            | 100      | 7    | 95         | 10       | 4         | 1            | 2           |
| Militia '36  | 30  | 30     | 1        | 2        | 2         | 0         | 1         | 8             | 100      | 4    | 50         | 5        | 4         | 0.2          | 1           |

This means:

-   Infantry uses five times as much supplies
-   Infantry increases TC load by five times
-   Infantry costs twice as much in manpower
-   Infantry costs over three times more IC days (665 versus 200)

These facts aren't necessarily surprising: since Infantry is a better
combat unit, it "should" cost more, right? Yet, combat isn't only about
statistics! In particular, there is more to combat in HOI2 than attack
ratings, and this will be explained in detail by the following analysis.
Further comparison is available at
[Ground_unit_statistics](/Ground_unit_statistics "Ground unit statistics")
.

###  Value 

Considering that every unit in game requires: "IC to build x Days to
build", also known as [IC days](/IC_days "IC days") (ICd), consider the
following scenario. You are a nation with 22 IC available for production
and you need to build an army. How do you get the most army for your
production? What will you build over the next 3 months? Considering this
time frame and the IC you are using, this equates to 2,000 ICd.

According to the [findings made by
Theokrat](http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?t=296740) ,
100% combat efficiency is achieved when the majority of a formation
consists of militia. Hence, building 3 militia and 2 infantry (1,930
ICd) versus 3 infantry (1,995 ICd) is a far better choice because the
mixed force is:

-   Superior in combat: more units are inflicting damage
-   Superior in losses: more units spread causalities evenly
-   Superior in staying power: Decreased loses enable infantry to fight
    longer
-   Superior in costs, time, TC, supply, and manpower.

###  Absorbing Bullets 

Militia will act like a sponge for bullets in your formation. A Militia
unit that has lost half of its strength has only lost 2.5 manpower,
while an infantry unit in the same situation has lost 5 manpower. This
has the net effect of keeping your infantry units in a firefight while
minimizing the causalities of your units.

###  Battle Winning Ability 

All this being said, the *true* value of Militia can only be understood
with battle winning ability (BWA). BWA = damage inflicted (soft attack)
x damage absorbed (org). Continuing the example above of unit production
that is the same in IC days, the choice of 3 militia with 2 infantry has
a total soft attack of 26, and a total organization of 150. Thus, the
BWA is 3,900 (26 \* 150). Meanwhile, the group of 3 infantry has a total
soft attack of 30, but a total organization of only 90. Thus, their BWA
is 2,700 (30 \* 90).

Meanwhile, 1 infantry with 300 BWA (30 \* 10) will defeat 2 Militia (4
\* 60) (240 BWA), however will loose handily against 3 Militia (540
BWA).

###  Command Limit 

A division of Militia takes up command capacity. In offense, Militia are
higher in the division ranking (explanation needed) and thus
damage-dealing infantry divisions are the ones taking the command
penalty of -75% effectiveness. There is no overall limit to command
capacity for defenders (instead of 24 divisions per province (FM + HQ)
for attackers), so militia are sure to be fully effective on defense.

##  The Manpower issue 

###  The problem 

Although Militia are an excellent, cost effective addition to nearly any
army, as explained above, one should still be weary of one particular
problem: manpower depletion.

On first sight, this is not really so much a problem, as Militia cost
only half the manpower of a standard Infantry unit (5 manpower for a
militia compared to 10 for an infantry unit). However, the IC-day cost
of an Infantry is more than three times the cost of that of a regular
Militia (665 for the Infantry to 200 for the Militia). In effect, this
means you can build approximately 3.30 Militia for every 1 Infantry,
which means you will spend 5 times 3.30 manpower (16.5) if you build
Militia, versus 10 manpower if you go Infantry. This can be a good
thing, as an investment in Militia is a quick and cost effective way to
*use* your manpower, rather than having it waste away in the manpower
pool.

Militia will rapidly deplete and waste manpower if used incorrectly. For
example, a unit comprised 100% of militia will take heavy losses and
have very little combat effectiveness. In this sense, creating a unit
that is entirely made of militia, and using that unit on the front
lines, is very wasteful of manpower. Alternatively, the suggested
approach is to combine Militia evenly with Infantry. Doing this ensures
that Infantry sustain fewer loses while fighting, and inflict more
damage. When Militia is used in this combined approach, manpower is
saved.

###  Consequences 

The consequences are fairly obvious, in that a state which main
limitation lies in a small manpower pool and a similarly slow growth in
manpower is oftentimes better served committing it's small manpower
resources to less cost effective, more elite units like Infantry, Armor
and Air force.

This begs the question: which state should employ large quantities of
Militia, which should use none and which should keep to a limited
amount?

#####  States which should rely heavily on Militia 

The states which should favor large amounts of Militia are states with a
high "manpower to IC ratio" (mp/IC). They will usually be limited in
their capabilities to turn out units because of limited IC, rather than
limited manpower.

States which will always fall in this category are the [Soviet
Union](/Soviet_Union "Soviet Union") , the Chinese states (cliques,
[Nationalist China](/Nationalist_China "Nationalist China") and
[Communist China](/Communist_China "Communist China") ),
[Japan](/Japan "Japan") and minor powers like [Brazil](/Brazil "Brazil")
.

States which will fall under this category if their slider settings
(Hawk), research (Agriculture) and cabinet choices (ministers which
favor manpower growth, like a "Man of the people" or a proponent of "the
People's war") are states like Italy and Spain, and sometimes Germany if
it has built up a large manpower pool in the early years of the game by
focusing production on Armor.

Also note that these states usually profit from "Land Doctrine" choices
that prefer Militia use (giving combat bonuses and discounts), and spend
a lot of manpower (the "Human Wave/Soviet"-branch and the
"Infiltration/Japanese"-branch). The "Guerrilla" option on the "Human
Wave"-branch is particularly appealing. States in this category should
even consider switching branches early on in the game if their research
allows it.

#####  States which could use some Militia 

These are typically states with a decent manpower growth but with an
even larger IC, which causes a medium mp/IC, like Germany (although you
should keep the before-mentioned exception in mind) and most of the
Allies in mid-game. Most minor powers also fall in this range.

#####    States which cannot afford Militia, manpower-wise 

These are states which typically have no manpower growth worthy of that
name, and more IC than they can spend. Micro-powers often fall under
this category, and minor powers with relatively high IC
(Benelux-countries and Eastern European countries) and even some major
powers (like the early, manpower strapped Allies, and Germany once faced
with the task of defeating the Soviet Union).
