---
title: "Modding_minister_files"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 Introduction ](#Introduction)
-   [ 2 Getting Started ](#Getting_Started)
    -   [ 2.1 The Ruling Cabinet ](#The_Ruling_Cabinet)
    -   [ 2.2 ID ](#ID)
    -   [ 2.3 Start(Designation) ](#Start.28Designation.29)
    -   [ 2.4 Name ](#Name)
    -   [ 2.5 Pool ](#Pool)
    -   [ 2.6 Ideology ](#Ideology)
    -   [ 2.7 Personality ](#Personality)
    -   [ 2.8 Loyalty ](#Loyalty)
    -   [ 2.9 Picturename ](#Picturename)
    -   [ 2.10 Further Notes ](#Further_Notes)

##  Introduction 

Editing Ministers is pretty easy, In \Hearts of Iron 2\db You will find
a folder called ministers. In this file are the ministers for each
country.

Don't quite fancy Stanley Baldwin a Prince of Terror? Think Hjalmar
Schacht should be a Laissez Faire Capitalist? Keep reading to find out
how to make it so.

##  Getting Started 

The first line in each minister file is just a contents key, the only
thing that needs to be changes is the country tag which should be
adapted to the country you are currently working on. Below is an example
of the first line in a file.

Example:

    BHU;Ruling Cabinet - Start;Name;Pool;Ideology;Personality;Loyalty;Picturename;x

In this example, I am editing Bhutan's ministers. Replace the BHU tag
with the country you are working on(Assuming it's a Custom Country) or
just open the file for the country you are working on.

Also note that as with the Leaders and Tech team files, each field of
information is seperated by a semi-colon(;).

###  The Ruling Cabinet 

The first ten ministers after the content key line will be the ministers
that will be ruling the country at gamestart. The ones after the
;Replacements;;;;;;;x line are available replacement ministers.

Note that Heads of State and Heads of Government may only be changes by
events or slider alterations.

Example:

    GER;Ruling Cabinet - Start;Name;Pool;Ideology;Personality;Loyalty;Picturename;Country
    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x
    2;Head of Government;Rudolf Hess;NA;NS;Silent Workhorse;High;M40;x
    3;Foreign Minister;Constantin von Neurath;NA;FA;Great Compromiser;High;M3;x
    4;Minister of Armament;Werner von Blomberg;NA;NS;Infantry Proponent;High;M4;x
    5;Minister of Security;Wilhelm Frick;NA;NS;Prince of Terror;High;M5;x
    6;Head of Military Intelligence;Wilhelm Canaris;NA;FA;Dismal Enigma;Medium;M6;x
    7;Chief of Staff;Ludwig Beck;NA;PA;School of Manoeuvre;High;M7;x
    8;Chief of Army;Werner von Fritsch;NA;PA;Armoured Spearhead Doctrine;High;M8;x
    9;Chief of Navy;Erich Raeder;NA;NS;Decisive Naval Battle Doctrine;High;M9;x
    10;Chief of Air Force;Hermann GÃ¶ring;NA;NS;Army Aviation Doctrine;Very High;M10;x
    ;Replacements;;;;;;;x

###  ID 

The first part of each line is the ministers ID field. Each minister
needs to have a unique ID. Otherwise the game will give you an error
message upon loading a scenario.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###    Start(Designation) 

This is the Ministers Job. Below is an example and a list of alternative
Jobs.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

Example:

    Head of State
    Head of Government
    Foreign Minister
    Minister of Armament
    Minister of Security
    Head of Military
    Chief of Staff
    Chief of Army
    Chief of Navy
    Chief of Air Force

###  Name 

Next is the name of the minister, Unless the poor guy/girl was born
without a name, You will need to write their name in this field.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###  Pool 

This is the year each minister becomes available, Ministers with NA in
this field are available from the very start.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x
    77;Minister of Armament;Hjalmar Schacht;37;NS;Administrative Genius;Medium;M14;x

###  Ideology 

This is what Ideology the minister is. Countries can only select
ministers which have their Ideology or a similar one. (IE: Germany can
only have PA, NS, or FA Ministers if they are National Socialist)

Example:

    Fascist Ideologies
    NS - National Socialist
    PA - Paternal Autocrat
    FA - Fascist

Example:

    Democratic Ideologies
    SC - Social Conservative
    SD - Social Democrat
    SL - Social Liberal
    ML - Market Liberal

Example:

    Communist Ideologies
    ST - Stalinist
    LWR - Left wing Radical
    LE - Leninist

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###  Personality 

This is the trait the minister has, Here you assign them what trait you
think best fits them(or not). Below is a list of traits, You can find
their effects on the wiki:
[Minister_Traits](/Minister_Traits "Minister Traits")

Head of state Example:

    Powerhungry Demagogue
    Stern Imperialist
    Barking Buffoon
    Benevolent Gentleman
    Insignificant Layman
    Autocratic Charmer
    Weary Stiffneck
    Ruthless Powermonger
    Pig-headed Isolationist
    Popular Figurehead
    Die-hard Reformer

Head of Government Example:

    Political Protege
    Flamboyant Tough Guy
    Backroom Backstabber
    Silent Workhorse
    Smiling Oilman
    Naive Optimist
    Corporate Suit
    Old General
    Old Air Marshal
    Happy Amateur
    Old Admiral
    Ambitious Union Boss

Foreign Minister Example:

    Iron Fisted Brute
    General Staffer
    Ideological Crusader
    Great Compromiser
    Apologetic Clerk
    Biased Intellectual
    The Cloak N Dagger Schemer

Minister of Armament Example:

    Military Entrepreneur
    Laissez Faires Capitalist
    Air Superiority Proponent
    Strategic Air Proponent
    Administrative Genius
    Tank Proponent
    Corrupt Kleptocrat
    Resource Industrialist
    Battle Fleet Proponent
    Air to Sea Proponent
    Theoretical Scientist
    Air to Ground Proponent
    Infantry Proponent
    Submarine Proponent

Minister of Security Example:

    Compassionate Gentleman
    Man of the People
    Prince of Terror
    Crime Fighter
    Silent Lawyer
    Back Stabber
    Efficient Sociopath

Head of Military Intelligence Example:

    Industrial Specialist
    Political Specialist
    Dismal Enigma
    Naval Intelligence Specialist
    Technical Specialist
    Logistics Specialist

Chief of Staff Example:

    School of Fire Support
    School of Manoeuvre
    School of Defence
    School of Psychology
    School of Mass Combat

Chief of Army Example:

    Guns and Butter Doctrine
    Armoured Spearhead Doctrine
    Decisive Battle Doctrine
    Static Defence Doctrine
    Elastic Defense Doctrine

Chief of Navy Example:

    Base Control Doctrine
    Open Seas Doctrine
    Decisive Naval Battle Doctrine
    Power Projection Doctrine
    Indirect Approach Doctrine

Chief of Air Force Example:

    Carpet Bombing Doctrine
    Naval Aviation Doctrine
    Air Superiority Doctrine
    Army Aviation Doctrine
    Vertical Envelopement Doctrine

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###  Loyalty 

This supposedly represents the ministers chance of being killed by a
random event. Not sure if this is implemented or not.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###  Picturename 

This is the ministers picture, The coresponding .bmps can be found in
Hearts of Iron 2\GFX\Interface\pics. If you are creating a new picture,
It should be 36 x 50 pixels.

Example:

    1;Head of State;Adolf Hitler;NA;NS;Powerhungry Demagogue;High;M1;x

###  Further Notes 

Apparently, at least in the version of Doomsday that I have, there are
some leaders that ship with too long of names to be used. For example,
German leader number 49 will not become head of government, even through
event. However, if his name is shortened, all of a sudden the game stops
ignoring his existence. So if you're having a problem with a leader you
added not showing up in game, at all, then you might try using a shorter
version of their name.
