---
title: "Strategy_for_operation_watchtower"
---

[Template:Scenario
guides](/index.php?title=Template:Scenario_guides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Scenario guides (page does not exist)")

[![Shieldjap.jpg](/images/c/cd/Shieldjap.jpg)](/File:Shieldjap.jpg)
[![Vs.jpg](/images/9/93/Vs.jpg)](/File:Vs.jpg)
[![Shieldals.jpg](/images/5/57/Shieldals.jpg)](/File:Shieldals.jpg)

##  Operation Watchtower Strategy for Japan 

Playing in Normal/Normal.

This is no picnic. Your first instinct might be to rush the troops you
have on Rabaul onto the transports and do an amphibious assault on
Guadalcanal right away. This will most likely lead to you ending up
fighting a losing battle against the Allied fleet, which right now is
much stronger than the Imperial fleet.

Instead, go off and hide your fleet (New Ireland is the easiest and most
obvious choice) until you get your first reinforcements. When that
happens, you can finally fight the Allied fleet on an equal footing.

As soon as you can win naval battles from the allies, take control of
the sea. Now you might be thinking it's best to attack Guadalcanal. But
it's not. Start taking the other islands in the south. And as soon as
you've captured 2-3 islands, the AI will get nervous and start attacking
random islands of you. But to attack you, they will use their troops
from Guadalcanal.

So from the moment you see they are attacking an island, you know that
Guadalcanal is empty. Send at least 4 divisions to do an amphibious
assault. If however the allies are winning the battle for the island
they are attacking, just send you're fleet to the boats, and hunt them
away. The troops will return to Guadalcanal now, but now they have
already lost a lot of organization. So it should be easy to defeat them.

When Guadalcanal is in your hands, all you can now do, is capture the
remaining 1-2 islands. And wait during the last three months, while you
fleet keeps sinking ships of the poor allies who don't have even the
smallest port left.
