---
title: "Strategy_for_fall_blau"
---

[Template:Scenario
guides](/index.php?title=Template:Scenario_guides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:Scenario guides (page does not exist)")

[![Shieldger.jpg](/images/7/71/Shieldger.jpg)](/File:Shieldger.jpg)
[![Vs.jpg](/images/9/93/Vs.jpg)](/File:Vs.jpg)
[![Shieldsov.jpg](/images/1/1c/Shieldsov.jpg)](/File:Shieldsov.jpg)

## Contents

-   [ 1 German Strategy ](#German_Strategy)
    -   [ 1.1 Opening moves ](#Opening_moves)
    -   [ 1.2 The Don ](#The_Don)
    -   [ 1.3 The East ](#The_East)

##  German Strategy 

As the Germans, you start off with a better army in the field, but it
will quickly lose its advantages as the soveits gain reinforcements and
retreat to more favorable terrain and weather. Time is critical on this
map, as it will be difficult to score any big wins once the ground
freezes. You have until November 18th to get 130 VP which is pretty much
all of them.

###  Opening moves 

Get all your forces to the front, especially aircraft which will be
critical in making breakthroughs and killing divisions with ground
attack. The army groups on the front are pretty well aranged, but you
will want to consolidate some armies, and regroup them in more
appropriate ways. Also, Manstein begins in the Crimea, and once
Sevastopol falls he should be redeployed to a central location.

Start by attacking Sevastopol, it should fall by day 2, and it will free
up several good divisions and commanders for more important theaters.
Just go at it and keep hitting it until it falls. If your first attack
fails, use aircraft for interdiction or logistical strike (to lower
enemy ESE).

Next start by attacking the weak spots on the Soviet line where you can
send armies from multiple provinces into a lightly defended area. On the
first day, I recommend attacking north towards Orel, and east to
Bilovodsk. Attacking these provences with all possible forces in the
region should result in victory by the end to the first day, and it will
route a large portion of the Soviet forces at the front, which will give
you an advantage in the opening phase. If your battles drag on for more
than a day then the Soviet reserves will arrive, and it will be a waste
to continue the attack. The fact that the Soviet troops are set as
reserves by default can be exploited, as you can lead their forces away
from the key provences by launching feints at weaker ones.

Continue fighting battles like this, being sure to encircle and destroy
soviet divisions, until you reach the Don, which really does slow you
down, and limit your advance.

###  The Don 

You can attack north towards Tula, and using it to flank the forces
defending the river, but this is a slow way of crossing the river, and
you end up with all your armies in the north, while all the major
targets are in the south. Some good crossing points are at Svoboda, in
the east which can be attacked from three provences, and allows a for
strong eastward attack through plaines and Salsk in the South, which
allows the caucuses to be cut off quckly. If the Soviets ever try to
attack you across the river, try to muster a counter attack, and you
will get a flanking bonus which negates the river crossing penalties.

###  The East 

Once the Don has been crossed, the Soviet lines should be thinned out a
bit, and you can make more rapid advances. Head to Grozny in the south
to cut off the Caucuses, allowing you to take Baku. In the north head
eastward, the ultimate goal being Kuybyshev, which being the farthest VP
province is the deciding factor for a strategic victory. A good crossing
point over the Volga that will put you in striking distance of
Kuybyachev is Engles. Another good idea, if the opportunity presents
itself is to turn north and try to drive as many Soviet divisions as
possible towards Gorkji were they will be trapped. This will take up
some time, but it is one of the last good places for encirclements
before the Volga, and if you can get a good number of armied holed up in
the north, it will make going east that much easier.

From here you should be in a good place to wrap things up as the winter
comes in. Try to avoid a city fight at stalingrad, as it will take time,
just bypass it and run some interdiction missions. Remember that the
Soviets get reinforcements at Stalingrad and Kuybyashev-two of the most
vital provinces, so be sure to either occupy them quickly, or bring a
large force (this is especially the case with Kuybyachev). Also be wary
of Soviet Counter attacks in lightly defended VP provinces. Because you
need every VP to win, and the loss of one minor province will cost you
the game.

Be sure to not get slowed down on this map, you'll have to maintain a
steady eastward advance to make it.
