---
title: "Us_strategy_ _Fascist_us_scenario"
---

[Template:USAStrategyGuides](/index.php?title=Template:USAStrategyGuides&action=edit&redlink=1 "Template:USAStrategyGuides (page does not exist)")
Paradox Interactive has included an entire alternate history fascist USA
scenario, with fascist "elections" and the like, in the Hearts of Iron
II game, for those who choose to take the US this route.

In the fascist USA scenario, you will be faced with two enemies -- one,
the UK and its Allies, and two, the Soviet Union. If you choose not to
align with Germany, you can pick and choose which of these alliances you
wish to fight. If you choose to align with Germany (and who wouldn't),
you will ultimately come into contact with both.

## Contents

-   [ 1 Going Fascist (or Communist, for that matter)
    ](#Going_Fascist_.28or_Communist.2C_for_that_matter.29)
-   [ 2 Starting a Phony War ](#Starting_a_Phony_War)
-   [ 3 The Fascist Cabinet ](#The_Fascist_Cabinet)
-   [ 4 Preparing For War With The Allies
    ](#Preparing_For_War_With_The_Allies)
-   [ 5 War With Britain, Canada and the Commonwealth
    ](#War_With_Britain.2C_Canada_and_the_Commonwealth)
    -   [ 5.1 Canada ](#Canada)
    -   [ 5.2 New Zealand / Australia ](#New_Zealand_.2F_Australia)
    -   [ 5.3 United Kingdom -- North American Defense
        ](#United_Kingdom_--_North_American_Defense)
    -   [ 5.4 United Kingdom -- North American Counter Offensive
        ](#United_Kingdom_--_North_American_Counter_Offensive)
-   [ 6 Defending Germany From Bolshevism
    ](#Defending_Germany_From_Bolshevism)
    -   [ 6.1 Baltic Landing ](#Baltic_Landing)
-   [ 7 Invade Britain ](#Invade_Britain)
-   [ 8 War With Japan ](#War_With_Japan)
    -   [ 8.1 Variant for Communist US Scenario
        ](#Variant_for_Communist_US_Scenario)
        -   [ 8.1.1 Introduction ](#Introduction)
        -   [ 8.1.2 Primary Changes ](#Primary_Changes)
        -   [ 8.1.3 Starting a Phony War ](#Starting_a_Phony_War_2)
        -   [ 8.1.4 Joining the Axis ](#Joining_the_Axis)
    -   [ 8.2 US splinter nations ](#US_splinter_nations)

#    Going Fascist (or Communist, for that matter) 

The US starts as a left-leaning democracy under Roosevelt. You're goal
is to push the authoritarian and the right wing sliders as far over as
possible. In doing this, you will find it impossible, in the early game,
to move away from Isolationism and Drafted Army, and you will be stuck
with Open Markets. Don't worry -- these can change later.

When you start the game, click the Democratic-Authoritarian slider over
to the right one move. In the 1936 elections, choose the Alf Landon
victory event. Landon is a very moderate "right-winger" and his election
won't help you too much, though it will push you towards isolationism
and give you increased money.

Click the authoritarian slider over to the right in 1937, and move it to
the right each year, right throughy 1941 and 1942. You will start to
trigger a number of events, where you will be given the choice as to
whether your dictatorship will have a right or a left wing flavor. In
particular, you will trigger the following events:

1\) Ban the fascist parties. This is the main event pushing you towards
either fascism or communism. Don't ban the parties, and you will go
right.

2\) An event objecting to controls on civil liberties. You will be
allowed to ally with socialists, liberals, conservatives or the
military. Ally with the military.

Also, as you go right, there will be an event where socialists protest
your policies, ally against them.

By 1940 you should be "Paternal Autocrat", and by 1941 you can be
fascist. I have not yet pushed things to the "National Socialist", but
such an outcome is certainly possible.

Note that each of these events creates a large (5% - 10%) amount of
dissent. Further, when your dissent rating is high, Great Britain will
try to influence your government, and will try to reverse the gains of
national socialism by political pressure. Keep consumer goods high,
though, and you will be able to eat up all the dissent within a year of
the event occurring, and avoid revolution, a coup, or outside influence.

Also note that the "Gearing Up For War" events will push you towards
drafted army, so don't waste points on building a professional army
early in the game. Japans acts in East Asia will give you some
intervention points, but you will end up mostly isolationist (as the
right wingers you install are exactly that).

  

#  Starting a Phony War 

Because of the peacetime modifier to your IC and resource production,
the US is operating at a fraction of its potential for many years. In a
normal US strategy, this cannot be avoided, as you will not be going to
war before September of '39 at the earliest. However, under this
strategy, you can choose to go to war far earlier, as soon as the
Authoritarian slider is far enough to the right. Even if you are limited
to the annual slider shifts and the standard events, you can be there by
early '38. With a lucky break, you might get a random event that moves
you even faster.

Once you have the ability to start a war, you can do so, albeit at a
hideous cost in dissent. If you choose a nearby and relatively helpless
neighbor, like Uruguay or El Salvador, you won't have to worry much
about the likelihood of the Allies stepping in (though they might not
regardless), but you will have to pay even high dissent costs in getting
rid of the non-aggression pact and the guarantee of independence. Be
careful not to DoW a puppet of an Allied nation! Nepal might look nice
and isolated, but has powerful friends.

In any case, the incredible increase in IC and resource production will
make throwing off the extra dissent a snap, as you can maintain your
current production and throw a ton of points into CG. You will also
emerge absolutely swimming in money, even more than normal with this
strategy. Of course, you will lose the benefit of any events that
require you to be at peace, but
[TANSTAAFL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TANSTAAFL "wikipedia:TANSTAAFL")
.

Obviously, don't let the war end until you are prepared to enter another
large rone. Your poor quarry will constantly whimper for a white
peace...just say no. You can invade them for their pathetic stockpiles,
if you like, but I just let them quiver in terror for a few years.

When you are ready to go to war in earnest, you might want to go ahead
and give them the white peace, or they will join the Allies (assuming
you allied with the Axis, if you did not, they might not, I haven't
tried that). If you wish to use this to your advantage, you could try
declaring war on a more significant country, such as Mexico, if you are
feeling acquisitive. All those non-aggression pacts and independence
gaurantees make your neighbors expensive to attack.

#  The Fascist Cabinet 

Alf Landon will stay President through 1940. In 1940, if you have moved
to Paternal Autocrat, you will have the election of Charles Lindbergh.
Lindberg is a "pig headed isolationist", which means he will make it
hard to declare war and make your economy extremely productive. You
don't need to declare war, though, because your alliance with Germany
will take you there on your own.

America under fascism produces huge amounts of money -- more than I've
seen with any other nation. By 1941, $15,000 - $20,000 in stockpile is
not unusual. Of course, given that you need to keep consumer goods
production high during the transition to fascism, lots of money is the
natural result.

Once you get to a fascist state, you will have an amusing variety of
ministers to choose from -- most of whom are better than the liberal or
conservative ministers you get under the Roosevelt or Republican
administrations.

The biggest loss as minister is Marshall as your Chief of Staff for the
military. However, you still have MacArthur and Eisenhower, with
MacArthur being my choice.

In exchange though, you get the following setup (1941, government type =
fascist, I'm only mentioning the notable ones):

-   Head of GovernmentÂ :

&nbsp;

           Robert Wood -- Chairman of Sears, Roebuck and Company and member of the America First
           committee (Silent Workhorse -- +5% IC)

-   Minister of State:

&nbsp;

           Charles Coughlin -- the radio priest, founder of the National League for Social 
           Justice, etc (Ideological Crusader), or;
           Ezra Pound -- the poet (Biased Intellectual)

-   Minister of Armaments:

&nbsp;

           Henry Ford -- President of Ford Motor Company (Administrative Genius -- +10% IC!); or, 
           Francis Townsend -- aide to Charles Coughlin and co-founder of the National League 
           for Social Justice(Resource Industrialist -- +5% IC / +10% Industrial Resource)

-   Minister of Security:

&nbsp;

           Fritz Kuhn -- head of the German-American Bund(Prince of Terror); or,
           Samuel Green -- Imperial Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan through 1949 (Man of the People); or,
           Gerald Winrod -- head of the Defenders of the Christian Faith (Efficient Sociopath)

-   Head of Intelligence:

&nbsp;

           Hiram Evans  -- Imperial Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan through 1939 (Naval Intelligence); or, 
           William Donovan -- founder of the US CIA (Political Specialist); or,
           Hoyt Vandenburg -- the actual Deputy Air Commander In Chief durign WW II (Technical Specialist); or, 
           James Colescott -- Imperial Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan through 1944 (Political Specialist)

-   Chief of the Army:

&nbsp;

           Kenneth Althaus -- a brigadier general who served in Italy (Armored Operations)

-   Chief of the Navy:

&nbsp;

           James Colescott -- Imperial Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan through 1944 (Open Seas)

-   Chief of the Air Force:

&nbsp;

           Nathan B Forrest III -- grandson of the founder of the Ku Klux Klan and US pilot who  
           died in a bombing run over Kiel in 1943 (Army Aviation); or,
           Charles Lindbergh (Air Superiority)

And note there are a lot of minor ministers whose names are not
recognizable to me and whose powers aren't that great.

Also note that Charles Lindbergh is available as Chief of the Air Force
under most of the more minor Republican administrations.

Given the deadweight that you dump when you go fascist (J Edgar Hoover,
Cordell Hull, lots of minors with penalties, etc) and the lack of really
good ministers for US domestic policy, at least early in the game, the
fascist cabinet really gives the US some power.

#  Preparing For War With The Allies 

If you go fascist, your first war is going to be with Canada, and, by
extension, Britain.

As has been noted here, the US starts out with almost no army. Further,
the transition towards fascism is going to involves a lot of resources
being dedicated to consumer goods and economic development, in order to
keep the people happy. Further, the first front in the war is going to
be New England and the US east coast -- the place most of your
industrial capacity is initially concentrated.

Look into developing industrial capacity and infrastructure in the West,
Southwest and Midwest. When Britain attacks, New England and the South
will be its preferred targets, and Canada will attempt a march right
down the Eastern seaboard through Maine.

You are going to need immediate ground forces to war with Canada, and
much of your initial Navy will be eaten up by Britain in short order.
You will also need units to protect against naval landings on the East
Coast.

I would recommend disbanding your horse-cavalry and lumping your
infantry together, then developing three strike units, a coastal defense
line, and a defensive line in New Hampshire and Boston. Your goal is to
compel Canada's surrender and impose a fascist government there, so you
can give Canada Maine -- there are no victory points there.

Have at least three garrison units, or their equivalent, in each of
Boston and Concord -- Canada's tanks will destroy anything less -- and
have garrisons in each British landing position in the US. Britain will
land troops on the Eastern Seaboard with these preferences:

1\) Washington 2) Norfolk 3) New York 4) Newark 5) Boston 6) either
Atlantic City or the area between Boston and New York 7) Florida
(Orlando, Miami, etc) 8) the South (Charleston, Charlottesville, etc)

Keep garrison units, infantry and/or militia in these provinces and you
won't have a problem.

You will also want at least two strike forces of three to four divisions
of either motorized infantry or armor, plus a force that can attack
Canada around Winnipeg.

I try to reinforce most of my divisions with either Engineers or
Self-Propelled Artilley brigades, and these brigades do make the
difference in one on one infantry combat, like you will have out West.

#    War With Britain, Canada and the Commonwealth 

Your goal is to annex Canada, secure its coasts, and then build a Marine
invasion force to eliminate Britain.

##  Canada 

Canada has only a few victory provinces, all of which can be conquered
within a month of your launching an offensive, if you have sufficient
troops.

Place one of your strike forces in Detroit, and another in Plattsburgh.
Send the troops in Detroit through Toronto to Ottawa. Send your troops
in Plattsburgh towards Montreal. The Canadians will attack down through
Maine, and give Maine to them. Hold them in the mountains of New
Hampshire and at Boston.

Send your infantry force north to Winnipeg and capture it. Canada will
attempt to recapture it before attacking another point in the Northern
US.

Wait for the Canadian forces in Vancouver to invade Juneau, then attack
their remaining 1-2 divisions from Seattle.

When Vancouver, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal are in your
hands, annex Canada.

After annexation, I typically liberate conquered nations, because they
use their ICs much more efficiently than you do, and they will produce
their own military for their defense -- relieving you of the
responsibility. You will have the option of liberating either Canada or
Quebec, and I would choose liberating the whole thing.

##    New Zealand / Australia 

New Zealand and / or Australia will attempt naval landings in and around
Vancouver to try to retake Canada. Keep an appropriate garrison and they
will fail. Also, garrison Anchorage, Alaska, because there is a victory
point there.

##  United Kingdom -- North American Defense 

Britain will attempt to retake Canada by landings in Newfoundland, in
Labrador and across that coastline. They will also attempt landings on
the Eastern Seaboard of the US.

The British strategy is to first land in the area of Washington, DC and
capture it, if possible. If not, they will attempt to secure New
England. Failing that, they will attack Florida and the South. If you
have a coastal defence force made up, you should be able to block many
of these attacks.

If the British manage to land, they will send their tanks rampaging deep
into the country while using infantry to hold and expand a beachhead.
Their mobile units will try to encircle your shore garrison, infantry
and militia and then destroy them. Often, they will not have enough
units to hold every territory they capture, which makes them vulnerable
to counter-encirclement.

Ultimately, the British will devote as much as half of their army to
their attack on the United States and Canada -- removing units
particularly from the African and Indian campaigns to do so. Italy
generally has a field day in Egypt, the Sudan and even Iraq with Britain
distracted and bogged down in North America.

What Britain offers, through its tactics, is an excellent opportunity to
encircle and destroy as much as half of their army before you have to go
overseas to get them. Take this opportunity, and wipe them out.

##  United Kingdom -- North American Counter Offensive 

After the Canada campaign, while on the defensive, improve your naval
forces and build Marines. Try to build generation IV ships, with
carriers at the core of your fleet, and battleships and support vehicles
secondary.

Once you have sufficient ships, capture Newfoundland (if you haven't
already), the Bermuda, and then the Bahamas. Newfoundland is the base
for British attacks on Canada. Bermuda is the base for attacks on your
Eastern seaboard. The only other British port within striking distance
of the US is the Bahamas, so take that too.

Then, to wrap up the Americas, capture British Honduras, Jamaica,
Curacao, the Eastern Carribean Islands, Trinidas and Tobago, Guiana and
Surinam. This will be much easier if you build a port in Puerto Rico,
since not all of South America is accessible for generation III-IV ships
from Miami or the Bahamas. Among those, only French Guiana is worth any
points. Don't try capturing a port from a Carribean nation, as there is
too much dissent involved in any warmongering activity.

Once you capture the northern parts of South America, liberate the
nation of Guiana, and save yourself from having to defend the area.
France and the Netherlands will occassionally launch marine invasions of
any undefended territory there.

#  Defending Germany From Bolshevism 

The Brits will, potentially, deploy as much as one half to two thirds of
their armed forces to liberating Canada and defeating the United States.
When you beat them, they will have essentially no army left, except for
their home guard, and it may appear like an excellent time to invade
their island. However, by the time you beat them, a more dangerous
threat will likely have emerged -- the threat of the defeat of Germany
by Soviet Bolshevism.

The German-Bolshevik conflict usually plays out this way: Germany
invades the Soviet Union in 1941 and runs the Soviets back, roughly, to
Leningrad-Moscow-Stalingrad by the end of the year. Around mid-1942,
however, the Soviets go on the offensive, and by the end of 1943,
Germany has been run back into France.

Your goal is to help Germany before they get run back into France, and
you find yourself having to D-Day a Soviet Fortress Europa.

More specifically, your goal is to fight the Soviets to a stalemate on
the Eastern front and protect Germany so you can invade the British
isles.

##  Baltic Landing 

By the time you've beaten Britain, your Navy should be ruling the
Atlantic. As long you've managed to preserve a Type-IV aircraft carrier
and have a few modern ships to accompany it, you should be okay.

If the Soviets have already begun over-running the Baltic nations,
consider landing some Marines to form a Beachhead. This will give you
the advantage of captured territory being blue (yours), rather than gray
(German), and will allow you to liberate nations, rather than turn them
over the Reich.

Your troops will be of infinitely better quality than the Soviets, and
you will easily be able to emulate Germany's feat, and drive the Soviets
back -- if not, immediately, quite as far, as it will take time for you
to build up the number of divisions you need.

The Soviet Army will generally comprise about 400 divisions before the
Germans invade; Germany will likely whittle them down to about 300 when
you have to face them. Your job will be the same as it was when you
defended against the British -- use your armor to punch holes in Soviet
lines, surround their forces, and eliminate their divisions. Given that
most of the Soviet forces will be low-quality, slow moving infantry, and
you will have motorized, mechanized and armored formations, this should
not be so difficult.

As you advance and build a new line in the Northern portion of the
Eastern front, the Soviets will launch an offensive against the Southern
portion, into Romania, Hungary, and whatever other nations ally with the
Reich. It will take the Soviets several months to successfully launch
this offensive, and you should be able to build up 60-70 divisions in
Europe before the Soviet offensive begins.

The best response to the inevitable collapse of the German-Axis line in
the South is to allow the Soviets to advance, then strike through Poland
and across Romania-Moldova to the Black Sea, and cut their advance
troops in Austria, Hungary, Romania and Southern Germany off from the
main body of their nation. Then, encircle them, whittle away at their
positions, and annihilate them. By the time this is done, the Soviets
should be down under 200 divisions, and you should have about 125-150
divisions on your side (at least).

You will find that the Russian winter runs down your manpower, and the
same strategic advice for the Germans fighting on the Eastern front
applies to you too. Limit combat during the winter, use your massive
advantage in mobility and quality of equipment to inflict
disproportionate casualties on the Soviets, and use breakthrough and
surround armored spearhead tactics. Your advantage is that Soviet
manpower is already critical when you attack them -- its not longer the
unlimited sea of men the Germans faced in their offensive.

After you stop the Soviet advance, start rolling the Soviets back until
you've captured Moscow, Leningrad and Stalingrad. When you've done this,
you've beaten them. To make them surrender, take Vladivostock, but
you'll find that, by the time you manage to get through Japan to do
this, the Germans and your forces will have overrun most of the victory
points in the Soviet Uniion anyways.

#  Invade Britain 

After fighting the Soviets to a halt, invade Britain. You'll find that,
with your defeat of the Brits in North America, they also lost Africa
(to Italy) and India (to Japan). They have essentially no soldiers left
in the home islands, and overruning them is a cakewalk. Take a few
moments to do it, just to clean up the European theater, and then
liberate Scotland. When you finish capturing the rest of Britain's
Victory Points, liberate Britain and install Oswald Mosley in place of
Winston Churchill.

Note that one bar to doing that will be Gibraltar. You cannot invade it
by sea, and Nationalist Spain often stays neutral. This may mean you
have to go to war with Nationalist Spain to annex Britain. If so, land
troops on both coasts and overrun them. They have do usually have a lot
of divisions (50-60), decent infantry and terrain, but they cannot stand
against the combined military might of the US and Germany.

#  War With Japan 

Yes, Japan will still launch Pearl Harbor, even if you are part of the
Axis, as long as they have not officially joined the Axis (which I have
never seen them do on their own). Sometimes they wait until 1942 to do
this. Don't let that fool you. It is coming.

If you are fighting the Soviet Union when Japan attacks you, don't waste
time taking troops to the Pacific theater to respond. You will be in a
much better position to defeat Japan in China and Manchuria after you
have overrun the Soviet Union, and the Japanese generally do not attempt
an invasion of the United States -- they tend to devote most of their
land forces to overrunning India and fighting in China, and burn the
rest up fighting Australia in New Guinea and the Australian mainland.
They will overrun Guam and the Phillipines, but let them -- you can
retake them later.

Earlier in the game, right as Japan is about to overrun and annex
Nationalist China, it will sign a peace treaty returning the Southern
half of China to Nationalist control. This is to your advantage.
Nationalist China will attack Tibet and the other Chinese warlords,
unite China, and then launch a renewed war on Japan, if peace gives them
a chance to.

Your strategy in attacking Japan is immediate and direct conquest of the
home islands via Midway, Wake and Tokyo. Japan will not station troops
to defend their home islands until after you have invaded. This makes
life quite easy. Just set up a ferry for your troops from Western Europe
to a naval base in the Carribean to Pearl Harbor to Tokyo. The Japanese
have nothing that can match your tanks and mechanized divisions, and
you'll wipe them out.

There is a Japan surrenders event once you capture the home islands, but
I have never been able to trigger it. Once you've taken the home
islands, you are left with the annoying task of island hopping onto
every Victory Point Japan has in the Pacific. While doing that, take out
Australia and New Zealand. The easiest way to do so is to simultaneously
land troops on all their major cities and then annex them before they
know what hit them.

When Japan pulls all its troops back to defend the homeland, Nationalist
China will declare war and drive the Japanese out of mainland China. If
you beat the Soviets before launching your offensive, the Germans will
overrun Manchuria and the Korea Penninsula. The AI never seems to
liberate anyone, but if you get a chance to take Korea, you can liberate
the People's Republic. In the East Indies, you are limited to liberating
either Indonesia or Malaysia (in conjunction with the Malay penninsula
and Singapore) -- you don't get the same choice of puppet states as the
Japanese. Take those, take Southeast Asia, then take India, annex Japan,
and that should be the end of things -- all of your enemies are
defeated, the war is over and it is you, Germany and your puppet
nations, leading the world to a National Socialist future.

##  Variant for Communist US Scenario 

###  Introduction 

As with the Fascist scenario described above, there is also a Communist
version. I find this a more powerful strategy than the Fascist because
of the possibility of a âphony warâ unlocking the full power of the US
in early 1938. Interestingly, although it becomes more difficult to ally
with Germany as a Communist nation, it is not impossible to do so.

It used to also be trivially possible to turn the US Red through the
classic means: revolution. With a dissent above 65%, the US government
would collapse and a Communist dictatorship would take over. This event
was apparently commented out in 1.2, probably since it's ridiculously
easy as the US to drive your dissent up should you so choose.

As of 1.3a, "The Revolution has Come" event is not commented out.

###  Primary Changes 

The most important change is that you must ban the Fascist parties. This
will push you left. This way you will be given a radical political event
in early â38 that will allow you to choose an Ultraleftist option that
pushes you two clicks towards Authoritarianism. This is sufficient to
make you a Dictatorship, and you can then start a Phony War.

###  Starting a Phony War 

Because of the peacetime modifier to your IC and resource production,
the US is operating at a fraction of its potential for many years. In a
normal US strategy, this cannot be avoided, as you will not be going to
war before September of '39 at the earliest. However, under this
strategy, you can choose to go to war far earlier, as soon as the
Authoritarian slider is far enough to the right. Even if you are limited
to the annual slider shifts and the standard events, you can be there by
early '38. With a lucky break, you might get a random event that moves
you even faster.

Once you have the ability to start a war, you can do so, albeit at a
hideous cost in dissent. If you choose a nearby and relatively helpless
neighbor, like Uruguay or El Salvador, you won't have to worry much
about the likelihood of the Allies stepping in (though they might not
regardless), but you will have to pay even high dissent costs in getting
rid of the non-aggression pact and the guarantee of independence. Be
careful not to DoW a puppet of an Allied nation! Nepal might look nice
and isolated, but has powerful friends.

In any case, the incredible increase in IC and resource production will
make throwing off the extra dissent a snap, as you can maintain your
current production and throw a ton of points into CG. You will also
emerge absolutely swimming in money, even more than normal with this
strategy. Of course, you will lose the benefit of any events that
require you to be at peace, but
[TANSTAAFL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TANSTAAFL "wikipedia:TANSTAAFL")
.

Obviously, don't let the war end until you are prepared to enter another
larger one. Your poor quarry will constantly whimper for a white
peace...just say no. You can invade them for their pathetic stockpiles,
if you like, but I just let them quiver in terror for a few years.

When you are ready to go to war in earnest, you might want to go ahead
and give them the white peace, or they will join the Allies (assuming
you allied with the Axis, if you did not, they might not, I haven't
tried that). If you wish to use this to your advantage, you could try
declaring war on a more significant country, such as Mexico, if you are
feeling acquisitive. All those non-aggression pacts and independence
guarantees make your neighbors expensive to attack.

###  Joining the Axis 

As stated previously, it is still possible to join the Axis. You will
have to be at +200 relations (of course), and the chance will only be in
the low 20s, but four or five attempts should get you in. Even if the
odds turn against you, keep at it. You have plenty of money, and nothing
else to do with it.

  

##  US splinter nations 

If the US falls apart because of dissent, there are a number of splinter
nations that can emerge. I do not know all of them, but they include a
new Confederate States of America, a California Republic, a Texas
Republic, and more.
