---
title: "Usna_strategy"
---

## Contents

-   [ 1 General Guide ](#General_Guide)
-   [ 2 Abyss ](#Abyss)
    -   [ 2.1 Research ](#Research)
    -   [ 2.2 Resources ](#Resources)
    -   [ 2.3 Relationships ](#Relationships)
    -   [ 2.4 Spying ](#Spying)
    -   [ 2.5 Sliders and Ministers ](#Sliders_and_Ministers)
    -   [ 2.6 Armed Forces ](#Armed_Forces)
    -   [ 2.7 Other Notes ](#Other_Notes)

##  General Guide 

If you are going to play as the USNA, on either Armageddon or the Abyss
you've got a long game ahead of you. You'll be at war for the vast
majority of the game, without enough preparation. In Abyss, you do not
start immediately at war you'll have a little more time to prepare, but
not nearly enough. Armageddon throws you straight into it, and trying to
fight a World War with 1918 equipment. Hopefully with these tips you can
try and win an equal world war.

##  Abyss 

###  Research 

This is going to be an extremely frustrating area. You start at a huge
disadvantage compared to a normal game in terms of research of modern
weaponry, techniques, and doctrines, starting with only the most basic
technologies. On the plus side, you can pick whatever way you want to
go, and your tech teams are all good, but none are extraordinary. Your
land researcher, Omar Bradley, is best suited for the German Spearhead
doctrine, so you should probably pick that. In terms of naval research,
you are equally good at either Base Strike, or Fleet in Being, so that
is your choice. However, you should probably not be worrying about naval
research until you have stabilized your terrible ground situation. The
first things that you should definitely research are Rear Area Supply
Dumps, 1936 Infantry, your land doctrine of choice, probably Machine
tools for the IC boost and whatever else you think you need without
delay. You might want to research Improved Construction as soon as you
can so you can start building Naval and Air bases too when you start
conquering new territories. Secret weapons probably are not worth the
effort because of how quickly the war starts, and how much IC will be
taken up just trying to survive. Once you've made allies, trade
blueprints with them of course. You will not be able to research
everything, so pick an strategy for naval combat, air combat, and ground
combat, and try and stick with it.

###  Resources 

You do not have enough resources to run your industry even to begin
with. You should immediately attempt to trade as much supplies as you
can to get a bare minimum of war materials flowing in. Unfortunately
everybody else is in pretty much the same position as you, so don't hold
your breath. Building more factories is probably unnecessary; again you
will probably be heading to war quickly.

###  Relationships 

Try and build up friendly relations with all the democracies as quickly
as possible. You are the leader of the allies, and if you don't bring
them together, nothing will. Don't ally immediately unless you want to
ensure that when one of your democratic allies declares war on somebody,
or has war declared on them, you'll be drawn into it. You'll often see
the AI players start declaring war on one another in January when the
game is set to Furious, so usually by the time you build up good enough
relationships to ensure alliances they will already be at war. Only
build up relationships with countries you are not going to ally with if
you are feeling particularly generous or need resources from them. You
will be at war with them rather quickly anyway. Signing non-aggression
pacts is a great way to delay war for you, but if you do you will have
to sign it with every non-democracy. All can, and probably will, declare
war on you. If you do this however, you'll be leaving your allies in the
cold, probably leading to their collapse if you do not intervene
quickly.

###  Spying 

No AI player will ever use the intelligence system, so if you want to
ignore it go ahead. It can be worthwhile to build up spies to gain info
about the other country's army, but unless you want to spend a lot of
time and money on other operations, it's probably not worth it.

###  Sliders and Ministers 

You start with good sliders in some ways, but they are crappy in their
own way. Everything except democracy and interventionism are in the
middle. You only get the yearly change to definitly change your sliders,
and while you might get random events to change your policy but don't
count on it, so you are going to have to decide what is most important
you change first. Ministers are all very good, it's your choice about
what you want to focus on and who to choose, and when.

###  Armed Forces 

War will start early. Therefore, as soon as your 1936 infantry research
has finished start a big run of those guys. Organize your navy and air
force as you see fit, but they will basically be useless to deciding
things in the short to medium term. If you do want them to be decisive
you are going to have to do a ton of research in those fields and a ton
of construction. Your navy is definitely your second most important
branch, but it will take too long to build a respectable force unless
you manage to worm your way out of war for two years or more. You should
probably disband your subs, but not your whole fleet. If you want to try
building a few more vessels to ensure numerical superiority, go ahead,
nobody else will even try to build up their navy. Your first enemy will
be the Confederates and they own the Caribbean, and you'll need
something to secure your transports as you take their victory point
islands. Naval forces are also very helpful against the Liberatores in
South America where big, poorly traversable, heavily defended provinces
make land attack almost impossible, and landings can make a huge
difference in distracting them long enough for your main forces to punch
through. Air forces can always aid, but you will probably not have
enough spare IC in the short term to build something respectable, and
the enemy's force is as weak as yours, so defending against it will not
be particularly difficult or life and death either. Infrastructure is
good throughout the map, even in Africa, Asia, South America where in a
normal game the infrastructure is normally very poor, so tanks can be
used almost anywhere, so save up and buy them when you have enough spare
IC, and good enough tanks researched.

###  Other Notes 

You'll need a lot of transports if you want to fight in Eurasia, which
you probably will have to if you want to keep your allies from
collapsing, particularly China, which has enemies on all sides, or to
finish off Africa, where the large provinces make it difficult for the
AI players to manage conquering, on top of your ally in Africa having to
deal with his main provinces in Europe being under attack by three
different countries. Generally, however, you can relax after the
Confederates and, to a lesser extent, the Liberatores, have been
crushed, take the time to build up your forces, watch the world slowly
fight itself into exhaustion, then send your forces in where you want,
and conquer huge swaths of territory, which you then have to garrison
and occupy. This can be really fun game, much like playing the United
States in a regular game, but with more powerful allies.
