---
title: "Vietnam"
---

Vietnam War Version 4.0 by FRVP

Fantastic historical scenario 1963 - 1975. Although you play longer if
you wish.

Playable countries: North and South Vietnam, Viet Cong, USA, USSR,
Thailand, China, North and South Korea. Also included are Laos,
Cambodia, Malaysia, Phillipines and Taiwan. Best played with agressive
AI and hard difficulty settings.

Made for Armageddon v1.1 but should work for all with the patches. Unzip
to Armaggedon, Doomsday or Ho2 directory.

Major change to map files, 25 textured territories added. Backup your
originals! (see below) There are some minor changes and additions to
some config, db, minister, leader and tech files. New graphics were
added for a few new units, ministers, leaders and events. A few
counters, flags and shields were modified. New AI files for countries
involved were added.

New units: Nuclear Sub, M41 Light-Tank, Titan ICBM, Special Forces Green
Beret. New technology: Jungle Warfare. New music: optional awesome sound
track for the era in two zips: pre 68 and post 67, use one or both.

Requirements: VNMAP is required You will need a time-limit fix for your
version to go beyond 1964! For HOI2 users only: You will need to unzip
the VN_HO2 patch to your HOI2 directory. For DD users only: You may need
to unzip the VN_DD patch to your DD directory.

All files scanned for virises: VNMAP 4.0 = 34mb Vietnam 4.0 - 6mb Pre 68
soundtrack - 35mb Post 67 soundtrack - 37mb VN_ho2 patch - 50k VN_DD
patch - 10k

Files Amended: (you may want to back these up) Config: world_names.csv,
tech_names.csv, unit_names.csv, models.csv, province_names.csv DB:
country.csv, revolt.txt, province.csv /Ministers: all playable countries
/Leaders: all playable countries /Tech: special_weapons_tech.txt,
infantry_tech.txt, armor_tech.txt /Units/divisions: flying_rocket.txt,
light_armor.txt, paratrooper.txt, nuclear_submarine.txt GFX/map/shields:
shield_u72.bmp, shield_idc.bmp GFX/map/flags: flag_u72.bmp, flag_idc.bmp
GFX/palete: counter_idc.bmp, counter_U72.bmp GFX/skins/default:
fullscreen.bmp, sidebar_A.bmp, topbar.bmp MAP: all map files

Thank you's to Jamie for his Map Maker and Hilsdorf for his OOB and
Leader contributions!

Enjoy! [Forum
link](http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/showthread.php?t=391628)
