---
title: "Yugoslav_wars"
---

\[ [\[1\]](http://img38.imageshack.us/img38/9817/logojx.png) \]

\[ [\[2\]](http://img690.imageshack.us/img690/1423/selectionbutton.jpg)
\]

\[
[\[3\]](http://images1.wikia.nocookie.net/heartsofiron/images/1/11/Za_stranicu.png)
\]

Join the fight that ravages ex-Yugoslavia! Relive Europe's last and most
taboo war! End the civil war with NATO, the Serbs, Albanians, Croatians
and other warring factions in this controversy proof mod.

The Scenario Time: Starts: 25 June 1991 Ends: 31 December 1999

The countrys:

ALB Albania BOS Bosnia CRO Croatia SER Serbia SLV Slovenia MTN
Montenegro U00 NATO U01 Kosova U02 Vojvodina U03 Herzeg-Bosna U04
Republika Srpska U05 Sandzak U06 Republika Srpska Krajina U07 Serbia and
Montenegro U08 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia U09 Autonomous Province of
Western Bosnia U10 Macedonia YUG Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia

  
Timelines:

Albania Albania, recently regaining its independancy from the Axis
occupation of World War II, was the only Country in the East that was
able to throw the Germans out without the assistance of Communist
Troops. Enver Hoxha, a French-Educated Politican became the leader of
the Communist Party, and ruled the country with an iron fist for almost
40 Years, established an Alliance with the Soviet Union. After breaking
with the Soviet Union, Albania was closely tied to Mao Zedong's China,
receiving a lot of aid from the Asian power. In the 70s, following the
death of Mao Zedong and the ending of Albania's political ties with
China, a lot of state officials were purged in the 70s. Following the
Death of Enver Hoxha, the Iron Fisted Dictator of Albania, only time may
tell what the future of this country might be, a country that has fought
so hard and long for its independence...

Bosnia The 1990 parliamentary elections led to a national assembly
dominated by three ethnically based parties, which had formed a loose
coalition to oust the communists from power. Croatia and Slovenia's
subsequent declarations of independence and the warfare that ensued
placed Bosnia and Herzegovina and its three constituent peoples in an
awkward position. A significant split soon developed on the issue of
whether to stay with the Yugoslav federation (overwhelmingly favoured
among Serbs) or seek independence (overwhelmingly favoured among
Bosniaks and Croats). The Serb members of parliament, consisting mainly
of the Serb Democratic Party members, abandoned the central parliament
in Sarajevo, and formed the Assembly of the Serb People of Bosnia and
Herzegovina on 24 October 1991, which marked the end of the three-ethnic
coalition that governed after the elections in 1990. After the start of
the war in Bosnia, the peoples which it consisted of have split in an
all out war. But except the civil war, Bosnia also got attacked by its
neighbours. The only populace, which remained loyal to the Bosnian
government was the Bosniak population. The Bosniak army was formed in
poor circumstances and suffered from a very limited supply of arms.
Critical deficiencies include tanks and other heavy weaponry. Will
Bosnia survive in this dire times as a united country, or will it
collapse and be partitioned among its enemies?

Croatia The Republic of Croatia, inhabited by a strongly nationalistic
population, was a part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Some would have called it a socialist republic with autonomy. In the
1980s Albania demanded the separation of Kosovo from Serbia, which was
the beginning of the end of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The Serbs began to influence government officials and in
1992 Milan Babic, president of the Republika Srbska Krajina stated that
he had been "strongly influenced by Serb propaganda." In the pending
Operation Storm, and Serb rebellions, will the Croatian army be able to
liberate their beloved country?

Republika Srpska Krajina The Self-Proclaimed Republic of Krajina, a
Serb-dominated entity within the borders of Croatia, came under the rule
of Milan Babic, a Croatian dentist. The Serbs, with the help of the
Yugoslav Army, established the Republic, and exiled almost 100.000
Croatians and Non-Serbs to the Croatian-Controlled parts of Croatia.
Under the lead of Milan Martic and Milan Babic, will the strong Serbian
Military be able to hold their ground, so that their beloved Republic
may remain, or will they fail, and order in Croatia will be restored
once more...?

Slovenia Slovenia became a part of Yugoslavia in the year 1918,
following the collapse of the Austo-Hungarian empire. In the seven
decades in which Slovenia was a part of Yugoslavia, it was the most
developed republic of the state. Since the 1950s, the Socialist Republic
of Slovenia enjoyed a relatively wide autonomy. In 1990, Slovenia
abandoned its socialist infrastructure, the first free and democratic
elections were held, and the DEMOS coalition defeated the former
Communist parties. The state reconstituted itself as the Republic of
Slovenia. In December 1990, the overwhelming majority of Slovenian
citizens voted for independence, which was declared on 25 June 1991.
Just 2 days later the Yugoslav army attacked Slovenia in order to subdue
the defected republic. Will the slovenian territorial defence be able to
repulse the intervention and get international recognition?

Vojvodina At first, the province enjoyed only a small level of autonomy
within Serbia, but it gained extensive rights of self-rule under the
1974 Yugoslav constitution, which gave both Kosovo and Vojvodina de
facto veto power in the Serbian and Yugoslav parliaments, as changes to
their status could not be made without the consent of the two Provincial
Assemblies. The 1974 Serbian constitution, adopted at the same time,
reiterated that "the Socialist Republic of Serbia comprises the
Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and the Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo, which originated in the common struggle of nations
and nationalities of Yugoslavia in the National Liberation War (the
Second World War) and socialist revolution". Under the rule of the
Serbian president Slobodan Miloševic, Vojvodina and Kosovo lost most of
their autonomy in September 1990. Vojvodina was still referred to as an
autonomous province of Serbia, but most of its autonomous powers -
including, crucially, its vote on the Yugoslav collective presidency -
were transferred to the control of Belgrade. The province, however,
still had its own parliament and government and some other autonomous
functions as well. Will Vojvodina try to restore its autonomy or try to
fully defect from Serbia.

The Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia The Autonomous Province of
Western Bosnia was a small unrecognized entity in the northwest of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. It consisted of the town of Velika Kladuša and a
few nearby villages, and existed between 1993 and 1995 as a result of
secessionist politics by Fikret Abdić against the Bosnian central
government during the Bosnian War. The capital of Western Bosnia was
Velika Kladuša. The Autonomous Province cooperated with Serbia as well
as Croatia against Bosnian government in the light of Karađorđevo
agreement meant to redistribute Bosnia and Herzegovina between Croatia
and Serbia. Fikret Abdić's role in undermining the Bosnian government
was awarded by Croatian regime as well as Serbian. His company was
granted free-custom trade zone in Croatian port of Rijeka, and free
trade with Serbian-controlled territories.

Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia The Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia has its origins in the ending of the Second World War, as
Yugoslav Partisans took control of the Area after Nazi Germany's
surrender, and established the FPRY, or the Federative People's Republic
of Yugoslavia. Its first President, Ivan Ribar, ruled for 7 years after
being succeeded by Josip Broz - Tito, the former Prime Minister of
Ribar's Cabinet. Tito allied Yugoslavia with the Soviet Union under
Joseph Stalin, the Soviet Dictator, and the Yugoslav Army shot down 2
American Airplanes that flew over Yugoslav Airspace. This caused a deep
distrust of Tito in the US, and even Stalin himself distrusted Tito. In
1948, a Crisis between Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union led to the end of
all remaining friendly relations between the Soviet Union and
Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia was now free from the Soviet Union, and formed
its own Communism, called "Titoism". Yugoslavia remained neutral in the
Cold War, and now, with several cultural groups demanding independence,
it will be up to its leaders and once proud patriotic people to lead
them through this unstable period...
